SINISTER ISLAND BY CHARLES WADSWORTH CAMP NEW YORK DODD, MEAD & COMPANY
1915 COPYRIGHT, 1914 CONTENTS I The Dangerous Habitation II Captain’s
Inlet III The Fear in the Coquina House IV The “Queer” Girl V Jake’s
Premonition VI The Snake’s Strike VII The Forest Vigil VIII The Coroner
from Sandport IX The Grave in the Shadows X The Grim Fisherman XI The
Circle and the Wrists Again XII The Conquering Influence XIII The
Bivouac in the Marshes XIV Miller Prepares to Fight

XV The Room of Evil Memories XVI The Cry in the Night XVII The Blue
Flame XVIII The Path to the Flame XIX Within the Circle XX Noyer’s
Relics XXI The Menace of the Slave Quarters XXII The Dawn SINISTER
ISLAND

Chapter I THE DANGEROUS HABITATION Captain’s Island is not far from
civilisation as one measures space. Dealing with the less tangible
medium of custom, it is—or was—practically beyond perception. James
Miller didn’t know this. When ho had thought at all of his friend
Anderson’s new winter home he had pictured the familiar southern resort
with hotels and cottages sheltering Hammonds peerage, and a seductive
bathing beach to irritate the conservative. That background, indeed, was
given detail by his own desires. For he had received Anderson’s letter
concerning the new move while still in bed with a wearisome illness.
Now, after two months’ convalescence in quiet waterways, he was ready to
snare pleasure where it was most alluring before returning to the North
and Wall Street. So he sent a telegram from Allairville, instructing
Anderson to meet him in Martinsburg and conduct him to the revels of his
tropical resort. As a matter of fact it was this wire, despatched with
such smiling anticipation, that became the leash by which he was drawn
into the erratic, tragic, and apparently unaccountable occurrences which
at the time added immeasurably to the lonely island’s evil fame. Still
it went, and Miller, ignorant of what he faced, went after it as quickly
as he could, which was with the speed of a snail. It took his small
cruising launch forty-eight hours, including a minimum of rest, to
conquer the fifty miles between Allairville and Martinsburg. Because of
this aversion of his boat to anything approximating haste he had caused
the name Dart to be painted across the stern in arresting letters. As
the droll craft loafed down into the busy roadsteads of the southern
metropolis this warm May morning. Miller, in perfect consonance with its
bland indifference, lay in a steamer chair on the upper deck. Clothed in
white flannels and smoking a pipe, he surveyed with gentle calm a
petulant, unreasonable world. He smiled pleasantly at enraged tug-boat
and barge captains. Crawling through the railroad drawbridge, he waved a
greeting free from malice at the keeper, who, arms akimbo, chin
uptilted, bawled his expectations of a train by

midnight and his reasonable ambition to clear the draw before that
hour. Nor did the native, leaning against the wheel forward, respond
even by a glance to these studied incivilities. His ears seemed to be
occupied exclusively by the engine as capricious symptoms; his eyes, by
his goal, at last within view; his hands, by the wheel as he coaxed the
Dart to the urgencies of traffic. Miller eyed the fellow approvingly. By
rare good luck he had hired him down the state when he had bought this
boat as the first ingredient of the doctor’s prescription for a long
rest in the South. At the start the man had proved his fitness by
exposing an abnormal affection for diseased gasoline motors. Since then
he had served Miller acceptably as captain, engineer, deck-hand, cook,
and, in a sketchy sense, valet. Moreover he knew obscure, uncharted
channels. He had a special intuition for the haunts of fish and game. In
the villages where they paused for supplies he out-bargained the
storekeepers almost without words. Miller appreciated that it was due
only to his devotion and ingenuity that the Dart at present
indifferently blocked traffic in the river before Martinsburg. With the
inexcusable confidence most of us bring to the contemplation of the
immediate future he regretted his early parting with this admirable
Crichton. When the Dart was made fast to her appointed place at the dock
Miller lowered his legs, arose, and stretched himself to his full height
comfortably. He glanced at his watch. It was noon. He had wired Anderson
to meet him at the boat at one o’clock. For the first time he realised
he had made a thoughtless rendezvous. Why had he not mentioned an hotel?
This thriving town might have offered comparative culinary splendour
after the plainness to which he had abandoned himself on the Dart. As it
was he must offer his hospitality to Anderson at that hour, and
Anderson, no doubt, after two months of heavy luxury at his winter
resort, would gratefully accept. “Tony,” he said, “you deserve the rest
of the day. Why should injustice always trouble the deserving?” Tony,
standing below, leaned his elbows on the break of the upper deck. His
eyes behind the bushy brows expressed no positive emotion—certainly not
chagrin or revolt. “I’ve asked some one to meet me here at one o’clock,”
Miller went on. “I must offer him luncheon unless you strike, in which
case I wouldn’t be much

annoyed. In fact I’d take you back tonight. Do as you wish. I’m going
up-town.” Tony lowered his bearded face and slid down the companionway.
Miller stepped to the dock. “Tony!” he called. The native thrust his
head through the hatch and waited impassively. Miller handed him some
silver. “For what we lack in case your sense of duty throttles
commonsense.” A brown hand closed over the money. The emotionless face
was withdrawn. Miller strolled through the city. After his months of
exile from so familiar a setting he experienced a sense of elation at
the thud of a hard pavement beneath his feet, at the cacophony of street
noises, at the air of badly-guarded impatience given out by these men
and women who crowded him at the crossings. It was good to be well, to
be on the threshold of that vaster, more selfish hubbub of his own city.
No more days and nights on the boat in lonely places, he reminded
himself. And he was glad. This was the frame of mind in which he
returned to the dock to meet his first dampening and significant
disappointment. He saw Tony leaning, sphinx-like, against the rail of
the Dart, but there was no sign of Anderson. “Any word from the guest?”
he asked Tony as he came up. The native drew a crumpled, soiled envelope
from his pocket. He handed it over the rail. As he took the envelope
Miller recognised his friend’s writing. While he read the brief note a
frown drove the satisfaction from his face, leaving bewilderment.
Anderson had commenced in his customary affectionate manner, but beyond
that everything was unexpected’, puzzling. “It is far from convenient
for me to leave Molly” the letter ran; and Miller could frame no
satisfactory explanation for that except the serious illness of
Anderson’s wife. Yet the rest of the letter said nothing of illness; did
not even

suggest it. “For heaven’s sake,” it went on, “or more strictly for our
own, come down to Captain’s Island, Jim. Come this afternoon if it is
humanly possible. Anchor in the inlet if you can get anybody to steer
you through. The channel is hard to negotiate, but you won’t find that
the chief difficulty in hiring a pilot. I’ll watch for you. If you make
it I’ll row out immediately and tell you the rest. Then you can decide
if you want to help us out of this mess and back to commonsense. Molly
sends her anxious best.” Miller read the letter twice before returning
it to the soiled envelope. The only clear fact was that Anderson and
Molly were in trouble. Anderson had written that he would tell him the
rest on his arrival. But the rest of what! For he had told him nothing.
“How did this come?” he asked Tony. The native pointed to a steamboat,
diminutive and unkempt, made fast to a neighbouring dock. “Boy brought
it over,” he mumbled. Miller glanced at his watch. Curiosity was
useless. His friends needed him. He would leave at the earliest possible
moment. “This letter, Tony,” he said, “is unexpected and important. If
you’ve the usual plans of seafaring men while in port banish them.” He
swung on his heel. “I’ll be back in a few minutes.” He hurried from the
dock to a telegraph office which he had noticed during his walk. He saw
only one operator on duty and he found himself the only patron. He wrote
a despatch to Anderson, saying he was leaving at once, and handed it to
the agent, a good-natured young fellow in his shirt sleeves. The man
glanced at the address, raised his eyes quickly to Miller’s face, and
let the yellow slip flutter to the counter.

“Well!” Miller demanded. “Can’t send that to Captain’s Island.” “Place
censored or quarantined?” Miller asked impatiently. “Might as well be
quarantined—for the yellow fever,” the agent drawled, “but the main
point is there isn’t any wire there. Of course I can send a messenger
boy down on the little boat to Sandport this afternoon. He might get
somebody to row him across the river, and he could walk the three miles
or so. Sent one down to Mr. Anderson that way yesterday. But this
doesn’t seem important, and you can figure the expense.” Miller’s
preconceived notions of Captain’s Island began to crumble. “Not worth
it,” he said. “Besides,” the agent went on, “it’s hard to get anybody to
walk that island at night. Since you’re going yourself—” Again he stared
curiously and with a sort of wonder at Miller. “I don’t want to pry, but
mighty few people go—” Miller laughed. “It seems to me my question comes
first. What’s the matter with Captain’s Island?” The agent picked the
yellow form up and handed it to Miller. “And you ask me I—I don’t know.
Nobody knows. People been asking that for a good many more years than I
am old.” Miller tore the message up. He glanced around the somnolent
office. “I’m not good at riddles either,” he said, “but if you’ll let me
have this one I’ll try. You see I’m going there.” The agent shuffled
uncomfortably from one foot to the other.

“It’s this way,” he said at last. “It’s all talk, but it’s been going
on a long while, as I said, and we understand it down here. Now you’re
from the North. I don’t want to make myself a laughing stock!” Miller
smiled. Then he recalled the troubled tone of Anderson’s letter and his
smile died, “I promise I won’t laugh,” he said. “Of course I can guess.
Superstition?” “That’s it,” the agent answered. “The negroes and the
fishermen around Sandport have given the island a bad name. They won’t
go near it if they can help themselves, and even the people here have
got in the habit of leaving it a wide berth. I went down one Sunday with
a crowd of wild boys, and I’ve never wanted to go back—not that I saw
anything. Don’t think that. But there’s a clammy, damp, unhealthy
feeling about the place. I’ll say this much: if there’s such things as
ghosts that’s the proper place to look for them.” “Probably climate.
Close to the ocean, isn’t it?” “Yes. It’s like most of these sea
islands—marshes on one side, an inlet on the other, across that, rolling
sand dunes for maybe a quarter of a mile, and nothing beyond but the
everlasting ocean. They say in the old days it was a hang-out of the
buccaneers. And lonely! I can’t tell you how lonely that place looks.
Besides it’s got a bad reputation for rattlesnakes—no worse in the state
that I know of, but that isn’t why people stay away.” “Superstition,”
Miller said, “always comes out on top. It’s funny how these yarns get
started.” “Not so funny when you think of all that’s happened on
Captain’s Island,” the agent answered. “Trouble is, everybody knows its
history. Guess they scare the children with it still. They did when I
was a youngster. I’ve behaved myself many a time because they said if I
didn’t old Noyer would chain me up.” “Old Noyer!” “A giant of a brute
from Louisiana, who laid the island out as a plantation in the thirties
to raise sea island cotton. They say he carried fifty or sixty slaves,
and was a big dealer on the side. Ruins of the quarters are still there
if you’ve got the nerve to go look ‘em over. I started, but I didn’t get
far. The island was a jungle,

and I tell you it didn’t feel right to me. I’m not superstitious, but
you’re kind of looking for something all the time there. Anyway, old
Noyer was a regular king. He ruled that island and the inlet and that
lonely coast. Wasn’t accountable to anybody. When the law made it a
crime to import any more slaves into the country, he laughed in his
sleeve, and ran raving shiploads in just the same. He kept the poor
devils prisoners in the quarters until he could scatter the ones that
didn’t die or go stark crazy around the biggest markets. Those quarters
have got a right to be haunted, I reckon. Seems a pureblooded Arab girl
was brought over with a shipload of blacks. They say she was the
daughter of a chief, and somebody in Africa had reasons for getting rid
of her. Even Noyer didn’t dare try to sell her. They say he took a fancy
for her, and by and by married her. He built a coquina house for her
about a mile and a half from the plantation.” “A coquina house! What’s
that?” “Coquina? It’s a shell deposit they used a lot in the old days
for building, Noyer fixed it up in fine style for this Arab girl. She
lived there until one night that giant took it into his head without
reason that he ought to be jealous of her. He didn’t wait to find out he
was wrong. He cut her throat as she lay in bed. That’s the house where
this man, Mr. Anderson lives—the man you wanted to send the telegram
to.” Miller started. Yet he could not accept the agent’s story of this
ancient crime in Anderson’s house as a credible explanation of his
friend’s note. Anderson and Molly were both normal and healthy. He had
been in more or less constant touch with them since he had first met
Anderson in Paris ten years before when he had been on the threshold of
manhood. During that time he had seen no display of abnormality or of
any exceptional surrender to nerves. The question that troubled
principally now was why Anderson had ever chosen such a spot. “You knew
then,” he asked the agent, “about Mr. Anderson’s living there?” “Sure.
It’s natural everybody should get wind of that. You see his house and
the plantation house are the only two on the island, and until this
winter they’ve both stood empty since the Civil War. Oh, yes, everybody
heard of it right away.” “Queer they aren’t in ruins, too,” Miller said.
“No,” the agent explained. ” Property’s still in the hands of Noyer’s
family, I believe. They’ve let it all go back to the wilderness except
those two houses.

Kept them in repair, figuring, I reckon, somebody might be foolish some
day and rent them. Sure enough, this winter along comes a man named
Morgan who takes the plantation house, and this man, Mr. Anderson who
takes the other. Of the two give me the big place. It’s more open and
less gruesome than the coquina house. Yes, people would know about that
naturally. Been saying Captain’s Island would grow civilised again, but
I don’t hear of any patties going down, and I expect both the Morgans
and the Andersons have friends in Martinsburg.” Miller smiled. “The
invasion begins. I’m running down in my small boat this afternoon. How
far is it?” “About twenty-five miles altogether, but if you get a strong
tide behind you it doesn’t take long.” “My boat needs a water fall.” The
agent picked up a paper and turned to the marine page. “Tide’s on the
turn now. It runs three to four miles an hour between here and the mouth
of the river.” “Then I could make it by night,” Miller said. “I suppose
I need a pilot?” “Yes. There’s no entrance directly from the river. You
have to take a channel across the marshes.” The agent hesitated. “They
call it the Snake.” He cleared his throat, adding apologetically:
“That’s because it twists and turns so.” “What about a pilot?” Miller
asked. “Honestly, I don’t know,” the agent answered. ” Might get one to
take you by the island in the day time, but I doubt if you can persuade
any of these ignorant

rivermen to guide you into that inlet at night to anchor.” “That’s
silly,” Miller said irritably. “Lots of silly things there’s no
accounting for,” the agent replied. “And you can’t realise the
reputation the island’s got around this part of the country. And, see
here! Don’t you be putting me down as foolish too. I’ve told you what
they say. I don’t know anything about spooks—never saw one. All I do
claim is, there’s a kind of a spell on Captain’s Island that reaches out
for you and—and sort of scares you. That’s all I say—a sort of spell you
want to get away from. Maybe you’re right and it’s just the climate, and
that jungle, and the loneliness.” “And I,” Miller said, “have been
picturing it as a popular winter resort.” “You’ll have to ask the snakes
and the spooks about that,” the agent laughed. He turned to an entering
customer. Miller went back to the Dart, telling himself that the problem
of Anderson’s note was as undecipherable as ever. He would have to wait
for an explanation until he had seen Anderson that night. Therefore he
was all the more anxious to start. He had had enough experience with the
natives to accept as final the agent’s prophecy about the pilots. Tony,
who knew so much river lore, however, might furnish a means if he were
handled properly. As soon as he had stepped aboard he called to the man.
The native’s bearded face appeared in the companionway. He climbed to
the deck, wiping his hands on a ball of waste. “Tony,” Miller said, “do
you know the Snake channel?” Tony started. His hands ceased tearing at
the waste. “It’s near the mouth of the river,” Miller added. Tony
nodded. He moved uneasily. His eyes questioned. “Think you could get us
through without piling us on an oyster bank?” The native waited a moment
before nodding again with a jerky motion.

These signs were not lost on Miller. “I’ve altered my plans,” he said.
” Instead of abandoning you and the Dart here in a few days as I had
intended, I’ve decided to go a little farther north by water.” Tony’s
satisfaction was apparent in a smile. Miller felt it was important to
let that impression, which was more or less true, stand-It would explain
his desire to navigate the Snake. Once through the Snake and in the
inlet he would find ways to laugh Tony out of his superstitious fears.
“So we’ll cast off,” he said, “and go through the Snake this afternoon.”
Tony’s smile faded. The bearded lips half opened as though he was about
to speak. But his eyes caught the high sun and evidently he changed his
mind, for he went down the ladder, and after a moment the engine was
indignantly thrashing. Miller sighed. Tony reappeared, cast off, took
his place at the wheel, and backed the Dart into the river. Miller
seated himself in his deck chair. The city, whose warm, hurried life had
just seemed to welcome him, let him go now indifferently to a far
greater loneliness than that with which he had thought himself done. He
realised this with surprise before three o’clock. The short distance
between Captain’s Island and the metropolis had deceived him. He had
been unable to conceive the desolate nature of that narrow stretch. He
had not dreamed of anything like the precipitate loneliness that crowded
the last shanty outpost of the great factories. A little after three the
smoke of these factories was a vague haze on the horizon. The high
ground on which they stood had fallen abruptly to flat, wet,
uninhabitable marshes. These were relieved only by repellent swamps of
palmettos or an occasional pine tree which stretched itself, gaunt and
gibbet-like, from the waving grass. Miller’s half amused reception of
the agent’s talk had not been a pose. He had no belief in the
supernatural, nor would he admit for an instant that its vapoury

rumours would ever have the power to materialise for him into any
startling fact Yet this landscape could not fail to impress him as a
barren neutral ground between activity and stagnation, between the
familiar and the unsounded. It forced him, indeed, to call upon his
exceptional will power to fight back a mental inertness, a desire to
abandon himself to melancholy. And his will was not altogether
victorious. He became ill-at-ease, restless. He glanced at Tony. The
native leaned forward, clutching the wheel with both hands as though
engaged in a physical attempt to aid the swift tide and the engines. His
pipe had, for once, gone out, and remained neglected. Miller began
anxiously to look for signs of the Snake channel. But to either side the
dreary marshes swept away apparently unbroken. At five o’clock, however,
Tony turned the Dart towards the left bank of the river. Miller could
see a narrow opening in the marsh grass through which glassy water
flowed reluctantly. Beyond it, in the direction of the sea, he made out
a line of low trees, probably palmettos and cedars. It stretched
northward from the river across the marshes for, perhaps, five miles. He
pointed at the opening. “The Snake?” he asked. Tony nodded. He shifted
his feet restlessly. After manipulating his levers until the engine
slowed down he faced Miller. “Anchor?” Miller arose and walked to the
break of the deck. “Certainly not. I said we were going through the
Snake tonight.” Tony shuffled nearer. He spread his hands towards the
sky. “You mean,” Miller said, “That it will be dark in an hour or so? I
know it. What of it?” Tony opened his lips. He spoke with painful
effort. “Too late to get past. Would have to anchor by Captain’s
Island.” He pointed at the low, dense mass of trees which Miller had
noticed.

“Naturally,” Miller answered. “That’s my wish—to anchor in Captain’s
Inlet.” The threatened change in Tony became complete. It startled. He
placed his hands tremblingly on the break of the deck at Miller’s feet.
His cheeks above the heavy beard had grown white. His eyes showed the
first glimmer of revolt Miller had ever detected. But strangest of all,
the native, whose habitual silence was broken only by the most
imperative demands, burst suddenly into torrential speech. Miller
started back, unwilling to believe, because this man, who on occasion
had displayed the most uncalculating physical bravery, was now exposing
a shocking cowardice. And why? He scarcely seemed to know himself. The
words ran one into the other with the guttural accent of terror. It was
something to do with Captain’s Island. It didn’t pay to anchor there at
night. He backed this opinion with a flood of testimony—creeping, lying
tales. Miller knew it while he tried to shut his ears to them. He raised
his hand to stop this cruel exhibition. He stared into the frightened
eyes. For only a moment the wills of. the two men battled, then the
stronger, the more intelligent, conquered. Tony’s eyes wavered. His
guttural voice ceased. “Tony,” Miller said quietly, “with you or without
you, if she can be coaxed through the channel, the Dart will anchor in
Captain’s Inlet tonight. There’s the dingy. Take it if you wish and row
to Sandport. You can bring it around tomorrow by daylight. I’ll have
your money ready.” Tony hesitated. After a visible struggle he turned
back to the wheel. The engine gathered speed again. The Dart’s nose was
pointed for the opening. “And, Tony,” Miller added,” since you seem
inclined to stand by the ship, you must understand that this nonsense
cannot be repeated.” Tony didn’t answer, yet, knowing him, Miller felt
satisfied. But he noticed that the broad shoulders shook a little. The
boat was entering the Snake. Miller raised his eyes. Perhaps it was the
waning light—for the sun was setting—or some atmospheric trick, but all
at once Captain’s Island seemed to have come nearer. The dense mass of
its foliage cut into a flaming sky. Stealthy shadows slipped from it
across the bent marsh grass. Miller had a fancy that it was reaching out
slowly and surely. For what!

The agent’s talk of a spell came back to him. Was it the spell of the
place already reaching out for him? He felt suddenly cold. He shivered.
If it was the spell of the place it had found him, for his customary
cheerfulness was finally throttled by a black, heavy depression. He
knew, unless the agent had lied, that monstrous things had happened
there. Was it possible that Anderson’s, letter referred to their
fancied, incorporal survivals? The fact that the question persisted
troubled him. Unthinkingly, he accepted the challenge of the island.
Closing his fist, he raised it against the line of forest. The absurdity
of his gesture failed to impress him. He descended to the forward deck.
He stepped close to Tony. He tried to speak-naturally. “Better hurry
her, Tony. It mightn’t be a bad plan to get settled in Captain’s Inlet
before dark.”

Chapter II CAPTAINS INLET The Darf crept on through the Snake, twisting
and turning in the narrow channel between the marshes. Miller, contrary
to his usual custom, remained forward with Tony, his eyes fixed on the
sombre island, which little by little they approached. The sun had set
quickly, but its flames still smouldered in the west. Aside from the
island, caught in the heart of this barbaric afterglow, nothing served
to draw the eye except an occasional melancholy clump of Spanish
bayonets or palmettos. The only signs of life came from the dwellers of
the marsh—the flapping of a heron, disturbed by their passing, or the
far-away, mournful cries of unseen birds. Miller regretted the
thickening dusk. All at once the agent’s gossip had become
comprehensible. Yet he did not speak to Tony. To have done so would have
assumed an undesirable quality of sympathy, of confession. He forced
himself against his inclination to return to his steamer-chair on the
upper deck. As he climbed the ladder he saw the native send a startled
glance after him. At last the boat took a sweeping curve to the east.
The Snake widened and straightened, disclosing an unobstructed vista
past the northern end of the island, to sand dunes, piled against the
gloomy ashes of the sunset. A swifter current caught them. It appeared
to hurry the Dart, resisting, into the jaws of the inlet. Miller started
up. Tony was straining at the wheel. He seemed to be trying to turn the
boat over by the marshes opposite the island, but the current was too
strong for him, or the engines too inefficient. In spite of all he could
do the Dart kept near the land. Leaning against the rail. Miller watched
the struggle and its issue with a feeling of helplessness. Almost before
he knew, it they were drawn very near—so near that, even in this rapidly
waning light, the dark mass defined itself a little for him. He saw that
the bank at that end was higher than he had anticipated. This

appearance of height was increased by a heavy growth of cedars, whose
tops had been beaten by the prevailing wind from the dunes and the sea
into an unbroken, upward slope. Beneath this soft, thick, and green roof
the ancient trunks writhed and twisted like a forest setting for some
grim, Scandinavian folk tale. Behind the cedars palmettos thrust their
tufted tops in insolent contrast; and here and there one of those
gibbet-like pines lifted itself, dignified, isolated, suggestive. That
first close inspection made Miller feel that it was a place of shadows,
offering with confident promise shelter for things that would hide, for
things that should be hidden. It carried to him, moreover, a definite
menace for the disturber of that to which the island had opened its
refuge. To land, to penetrate this jungle, would call for more than
physical courage; would, in short, demand a moral resolution, which,
without warning; he found himself wondering if he possessed. Suddenly
the line was broken. An opening nearly a hundred yards wide had been
torn through the dense mass. A small pier stretched from it to the
channel, and from the shore the clearing sloped gently upward to a
colonial dwelling. The building was indistinct in this fading light, but
Miller knew it for the plantation house where Noyer had lived and ruled
before the war. It was painted white. The main portion was two stories
high with a sloping attic roof from the centre of which a square cupola
arose. High, slender columns supported the roof of a wide verandah.
Wings of one story, curved at the ends, stretched from either side. That
houses absorb and retain a personality is scarcely debatable. The
passing of these eighty years—the activities and rumoured cruelties of
the earlier ones, the silence and desertion of the later—had given to
this house an air of weary sorrow which reached Miller almost palpably.
A single light in the left hand wing, yellow, glimmering, like a
diseased eye, increased this sensation. He listened intently, but there
were no sounds of life from the shore—utter silence until a bird in the
jungle cried out raucously, angrily. They slipped past. The house was
gone. The line appeared to be unbroken again. And the agent had said
this was more open, less grewsome than the coquina house where Anderson
lived.

Miller went down the ladder. He resumed his stand near Tony, and Tony,
Miller thought, sent him a glance of comprehension. He cleared his
throat a trifle nervously. “I suppose we can anchor anywheres about
here.” Tony pointed ahead. The shore of the island curved to the south.
Opposite it the sand dunes swept around in an exact parallel. As they
swung into the inlet the flank of the island slowly exposed itself,
scarcely more, however, than a black patch; for the night was on them,
and the southern end of the island and of the inlet was lost in shadows—
Tony coaxed and manoeuvred until he had brought the Dart close to the
dunes, as far from the island as possible. When he was satisfied he
dropped the wheel, ran forward, and let the anchor go. There was a
splash as the chain rattled through the eye. Before the noise had ceased
the boat turned, listing heavily as it went. Miller, surprised, looked
over the rail. The tide was running like a millrace—ugly black water,
dashing by like a mill-race, as if to get past Captain’s Island and out
to the clean, open sea. The boat was quickly .around and straining at
her chain, impulsive to follow. “Get up your riding-light,” Miller said.
Tony came back, shaking his head. Miller understood. “Run it up just the
same.” Tony shook his head again, but he went below for the light. He
returned after a moment and ran the lantern to the mast head. Then he
went forward, stooped, and examined the anchor chain. Evidently he would
take every precaution against being dragged to that sinister shore
opposite. “You’re careful tonight, Tony.” The native stiffened. For a
moment he listened intently. “What is it?” Miller asked. Tony pointed.
Miller leaned against the rail, peering and listening too. A soft,
regular splashing came to him. Before long he saw a row boat slowly
emerge

from the shadow of the island. “That you, Andy?” he called. No answer
came, but the boat drew nearer, at last swung under the stem of the
Dart. “Andy!” Miller called again. “Take this line, Jim.” It was
Anderson’s voice, but it was none the less unfamiliar—restrained almost
to the point of monotony, scarcely audible as though issuing from nearly
closed lips. “light the cabin lamp,” Miller said to Tony. He bent and
took the line. When he had made the row boat fast he held out his hand
and helped Anderson to the deck. The hand, he noticed, was hard, dry, a
little unsteady. “Andy!” he said. “Welcome!” Anderson didn’t reply
immediately. “Speechless from joy?” Miller laughed after a time. “Not
far from it,” Anderson answered. “Thank heavens you’re here. When your
wire came last night Molly and I had a real old-fashioned celebration
with that demonstrative bottle of wine. You haven’t forgotten the
fetiches of the Rue d’Assass?” “And Molly?” Miller asked. “She isn’t
sick?” “No—all right. Or as right as can be. That wife of mine—Oh, well,
you’ll see her, Jim, I hope. You got my letter? We were worried it
mightn’t reach you.” “I tried to wire.” “Then you know what an
uncivilised hole we’re in.”

He stepped back so that the light from the companionway shone upon him.
Miller experienced a sense of shock. Instead of the healthy, pleasant
face and the satisfied eyes he remembered, he stared at a lean and
haggard countenance out of which eyes full of a dull fear looked
suspiciously. Clearly Anderson was the victim of some revolutionary
trick of life, or else—it was the only alternative— stood on the
crumbling edge of nervous breakdown. Miller hesitated to ask the
question that would put the meaning of that extraordinary note beyond
all doubt. “Anyway I’m here,” he said. “Your letter would have brought
me farther than this. But before we grow too serious inspect my floating
palace. It’s the low comedian of all these waterways. Picked it up at
Bigadoon Beach when the doctor sentenced me.” Anderson put his hand on
Miller’s arm. “You must think me a friendly ass, but it confesses my
state of mind—that I should forget your illness. You seem yourself
again.” “I am,” Miller answered. ” Never felt better. I wanted one fling
with you and Molly before going back to the racket.” The momentary flash
of the remembered Anderson snapped out. His eyes sought the deck. “If
you stay it won’t be the kind of filing you expect.” Again Miller
avoided the issue. “Which will you see first?” he asked, “The
smoke-room, the diningroom, or the saloon? They’re all one. Step this
way. Lightly, please. We have no double bottoms.” As Anderson reached
the foot of the ladder his face brightened, but it was with the envy
that comes dangerously near offending the tenth commandment. “What a
cheerful time you must have had!” he said. “How Molly would enjoy seeing
this!” The interior of the Dart was, in fact, unexpected after a glance
at her graceless and battered hull. Its former owner had possessed taste
and an acceptable

definition of comfort. The walls were painted an ivory tint which took
its meaning from four soft-toned French prints. The lockers, running the
length of either side, were covered with tapestry cushions. A folding
mahogany table stood between them. Forward, a door opened into a tiny
stateroom, decorated in the same cheerful fashion, and, opposite,
beneath the companion ladder, a low sliding panel led to the kitchen and
engine-room. “Yes,” Anderson sighed. “You’ve been comfortable here.
You’re lucky, Jim.” He turned away. “Lucky and selfish. You ought to
share your good things perpetually.” Miller laughed. “Maybe,” he said
carelessly, “you and Molly have found a more compelling incubus for me
on Captain’s Island.” Anderson’s shoulders shook. Miller looked at him,
alarmed. But he was laughing —a little hysterically, still it was
laughter. “Since I’m the point of the joke,” Miller said, “you ought to
let me in it.” “I was only thinking,” Anderson answered, “that Captain’s
Island is a rare place to look for such a comfort as a wife ought to
be.” Miller plunged. “Andy, I’m waiting to hear about this island of
yours, and—and that puzzling Letter. First, something to warm you up—”
He raised his voice. “Tony?” Anderson glanced up. “Tony?”

“My general boatworker.” “Get him North?” “No—a native.” Anderson
watched rigidly while Tony thrust his bearded face through the kitchen
doorway and took Miller’s orders. “Now, Andy, sit down and raise the
veil.” But Anderson still stared at the sliding door. “This man of
yours—Tony!” “Don’t be afraid to talk. I’d confide my most particular
secrets to him.” Anderson shook his head. “I wouldn’t trust these
natives too far.” Anger coloured his face and voice. “There’s one
hanging around the island. Did you see his filthy tub as you came in?”
“No. Good and bad the world over, Andy.” “Be sure of him. You must be
sure,” Anderson insisted with a vibrant earnestness. “It makes no
difference,” Miller said. “The door will be closed. Speak low and he
won’t hear you. What kind of a mess are you and Molly in down here? Why
didn’t you bring Molly out with you?” “At this hour! You’ll understand
if you stay. It’s not pleasant on the island after dark. I—I hoped you’d
get here earlier. Don’t think I’m fanciful, Jim.” Tony entered and
placed the tray on the table. Miller motioned to the cigars. Anderson
reached out and drew his hand back absent-mindedly. When Tony had
returned to the kitchen and had closed the sliding door Miller

lighted his own cigar. “Now let’s have it,” he said. Anderson leaned
forward. His attitude was appealing. There was a definite appeal in his
eye. It impressed Miller as tragic that such a strong, self-reliant man
should assume this pitiful cloak.

Chapter III THE FEAR IN THE COQUINA HOUSE Anderson found a beginning
difficult. When at last he spoke his voice was low and there were uneven
pauses between the words. “I wanted to come right out and explain the
situation,” he said. “Then, if you choose, you can pull out of here in
the morning. Molly and I talked it over when your letter came. It seemed
the only fair thing. But it means telling you in cold blood, and I swore
to Molly I couldn’t do that. I said you’d call me a superstitious idiot
or suspect me of sun stroke. In either case you’ll have to include Molly
in your diagnosis, and you know how sensible she is.” “Yes, and how
sensible you’ve always been,” Miller said. “You don’t mean to say you’ve
let this lonely hole get on your nerves?” “I pray that’s what it is,”
Anderson replied eagerly, “—just nerves. That’s why we want to use
you—as a sort of test. The truth is we’re under the spell of this place,
and things are happening—unnatural things—things that we can’t explain
in any believable way.” Miller tried to smile. “Sounds as though you
were haunted.” “And that’s what it seems like. I didn’t want to say it
myself. It isn’t pleasant to be laughed at even when the laugh is
justified.” For the second time that day Miller promised not to laugh at
anything he might be told about Captain’s Island. He was conscious,
indeed, of a sharp mental struggle before he had subordinated the
impressions he had received himself coming through the Snake and into
the inlet. “I agree not to laugh,” he said, “but you must understand in
the beginning that I can’t take any supernatural talk very seriously. I
have no manner of belief in such rot.”

“After all, Jim,” Anderson answered, “that’s the way I want you to
talk. It’s what we need—somebody with a powerful will like yours and a
contempt for the uncanny to straighten us out and bring us back to
commonsense.” “Why the deuce have you stayed on if you’ve been so
unhappy?” Miller asked. “Because we can’t yield to a superstition we’ve
never acknowledged. We can’t go back to the world, convinced of such
madness. Molly is more determined than I. We’ve sworn for our peace of
mind the rest of our lives to stay on until every hope of a natural
solution is gone. You’re just about our last hope.” “This isn’t like
you,” Miller said. “Frankly, Andy, it’s folly.” “Our only excuse for
such folly,” Anderson answered warmly, “is that we’re not the only
reasonable people to confess it. There’s Morgan who lives in the big
house. You must have seen it when you came in. He’s more your own sort—
absolutely balanced, with a strong will. You’ll like him, Jim. He’s been
our only prop. But little by little I’ve seen his confidence dwindle,
and his uncertainty and worry grow. Then there’s Bait, a federal judge
in Martinsburg. He brought us down here in the first place.” “That’s how
you found it?” “Yes. Bait was a friend of Molly’s father. When we were
going through Martinsburg on our way to Cuba in January he made us stay
over for a few days. He has a fast cruising launch. He knew I was an
artist, and he thought I’d enjoy seeing this fascinating combination of
jungle, water, and sand. It was a brilliant day, and we came down so
fast the island seemed only a step—a charmingly isolated suburb of
Martinsburg. Jim, the place seemed to grasp me physically, and to
demand, since chance had brought me, that I stay and put on canvas its
beauty and the mystery that tantalised even at noon. I felt I had found
the inspiration for a new note, for the building of a real reputation.
And everything favoured the scheme. The coquina house would do. The fact
that we would have neighbours in the plantation house settled Molly. We
were enthusiastic and happy about it. Then Bait tried to discourage us.
He let us see that even he was subject to this—this folly as you call
it.” Miller whistled. “A judge, eh! He ought to get enough that’s beyond
the ken of man in his own

courtroom. What did your judge say?” “To begin with he told us the
amazing history of the island and old Noyer, its original owner.” “That
at least has corroboration,” Miller said after Anderson had repeated the
agent’s story. “But,” Anderson continued, “he couldn’t define any real
objections beyond the island’s isolation, its lack of convenient
communication, and—of course—we take them so much for granted now—the
snakes.” “I’ve heard they’re the chief tenants,” Miller said. “They
might have been a sound objection to your settling here.” “But we hadn’t
seen any that day, and we laughed, thinking the judge was trying to stop
up some of his other arguments that wouldn’t hold water. And it’s true.
Neither Molly nor I have seen a single snake, but they’re there somehow
or other —always—in the background. It’s the feeling of the place—a
feeling of long, slimy snakes, stealthily gliding in a circle from the
shadows with unsheathed tongues. Lately we’ve feared they were growing
daring—were getting ready to strike.” He took out his handkerchief and
passed it across his face. “And these other arguments?” Miller asked.
“The ones that the judge couldn’t define, that wouldn’t hold water?” “Of
course he couldn’t convince us with his talk of native and negro
superstition while the sun glinted on the inlet and bathed the scene of
his atrocious yams.” “Atrocious, you say, yet you—” “They must be,”
Anderson said. “Sitting here, face to face with you, I can say it. They
must be—Superstitions founded on Noyer’s revolting cruelty to his black
merchandise, on his terrible fits of rage, on the Arab girl who was
pampered and murdered in our house. Beyond question the island is
avoided, and these stories, rather than the snakes, are responsible. The
boy who brought your telegram from Sandport yesterday stumbled in at
dusk, in tears. He refused to go back until daylight—lay awake half the
night, crying out These beliefs made it necessary

from the first for us to bring our own provisions from Sandport—to
drive or walk the three miles to the river end of the island, signal for
a boat, and row across.” “Pleasant!” Miller said. “What do the servants
think of it?” “Servants! Haven’t had one in the house for two months,
except Jake. Same way with Morgan. He’s managed to keep his man and a
cook. That’s all.” “Of course Jake would be faithful,” Miller said.
“Yes, he’s faithful, but with a painful struggle. Sometimes I feel I
have no right to make him stay here, loathing and fearing the place as
he does.” “As you do, too, Andy,” Miller said softly. “Tell me what has
made you doubt the judge’s yarns were atrocious. What kind of spooks am
I to lay? What do you think you’ve seen?” “We’ve seen nothing. If one
only could see! It’s more subtle than that. It began the moment we moved
down. We had found we couldn’t get a native servant near the place so we
sent North for Mary and Ellen. You know how attached they were to Molly,
how long she had had them.” “Yes,” Miller replied, “but ignorant
women—easily scared by stories.” “They heard no stories,” Anderson said.
“There was no chance. We met them at the station in Martinsburg and
started immediately on Bait’s launch which he had loaned us. He had
taken our impedimenta down before, so everything was ready for us. Mary
and Ellen were enthusiastic when we sailed into the inlet. They had
never been South before. They were excited by the experience, and
completely satisfied. But when we entered the house its damp, chill air
repelled us.” “It would,” Miller said. “I’m told the entire island is a
jungle. Such places don’t get the sun, and, remember, your house had
stood in that jungle, uninhabited, for decades.” “Yes,” Anderson agreed,
“I ascribed a great deal to the climate at first, and maybe it’s that,
but—after awhile one wonders.”

“First, then, the girls became frightened!” “I don’t know—at first. We
all fell silent We started fires in every room, but it seemed as though
no amount of warmth could cut that charnel house atmosphere. And the day
went so quickly! Black night had trapped us before we had time to
realise it. I looked at Molly. “‘If the judge could peep in on us now,’
I said, ‘the laughing wouldn’t be all on one side.’ “So we smiled at
each other and were more cheerful after that until dinner time. Then
Mary, without warning, burst into tears.” “Homesick in a strange house,”
Miller suggested. “We couldn’t find out what it was. She didn’t seem to
know herself. Ellen, of course, had to see it. Their enthusiasm and
satisfaction were dead. “They wouldn’t go upstairs until we did. We had
given them each a room, but they said they preferred to share one. They
hung back from saying good night to Molly. This all drove our minds from
ourselves. We went to bed talking about it, wondering what the upshot
would be. “A wild scream awakened me in the middle of the night. In such
a place it was doubly startling. Molly was already up. I threw on a
bathrobe and we hurried to Mary and Ellen. Their light was burning. They
lay in bed trembling and clinging to each other. “They wouldn’t talk at
first—wouldn’t or couldn’t. Finally we got it out of them. They had
heard something dreadful happening in the next room. Some one, they
swore, had been murdered there. They had heard everything, and Mary had
screamed. Jim, I know it sounds absurd, but those girls who had never
dreamed of the existence of old Noyer or his Arab woman, described in
detail such sounds as might have cursed that house seventy or eighty
years ago the night of that vicious and unpunished murder. “We tried to
laugh them out of their fancy. We entered the next room—a large, gloomy
apartment on the front, probably—if Balt’s story is true—the room in
which the woman died. Of course there was nothing there, but we couldn’t
get Mary and Ellen to see for themselves. Nor would they stay upstairs.
They

dressed, and spent the rest of the night in the diningroom. And when we
came down for breakfast they told us what we had feared,—they wouldn’t
spend another night in that house. They were ready even to pay their own
fare home. They hated to leave Molly, they said, but they couldn’t help
themselves. They were afraid. It was then that I sent for Jake. If Jake
didn’t owe me so much, if he wasn’t so persistent in his gratitude and
loyalty, he would have followed them long ago.” “Nightmares!
Nightmares!” Miller scoffed. “Jim,” Anderson said slowly, “since then
Molly and I have had the same nightmares.” Miller glanced up. “Possibly
imagination after the girls’ story.” “No,” Anderson answered with
conviction. “We have heard—we still hear— sounds that are not
imagination—sounds that suggest a monstrous tragedy. And the worst of it
is there is no normal explanation—none, none. Jim, I’ve tried everything
to trace these sounds, to account for them. And they’re not all. Aside
from this recurrent experience the house is—is terrifying. It isn’t too
strong a word. You remember all that stuff we used to laugh at in the
reports of The Psychical Research Society—footsteps in empty rooms,
doors opening and closing without explanation? Well, Molly and I don’t
laugh at it now—but we want to laugh. Jim, make us laugh again.” “Of
course. Of course, Andy.” “And always at night,” Anderson went on,
“there’s that grewsome feeling of an intangible and appalling presence.
In the dark halls and rooms you know it is there, behind you, but when
you turn there is nothing.” He shuddered. He drank some water. “In an
indefinite way the atmosphere of that house is the atmosphere of the
entire island. I can’t explain that to you. It’s something one feels but
can’t analyse—something you must know and—and loathe yourself before you
can understand. As far as I can fix it, it’s the feeling of the snakes,
of which I spoke, and something besides. It holds a threat of death.”

“And the snakes?” Miller asked; “you say they haven’t troubled y—?” “I
said we had seen none.” Anderson paused. “But,” he went on after a
moment, “the other day we found Molly’s big Persian cat in the thicket
between the shore and the old slave quarters. It had been struck by a
rattlesnake.” “Too inquisitive cat!” Miller said. “You know snakes don’t
care about having their habits closely questioned by other animals.”
Anderson shook his head. “If you had lived here the last two months as
we have, you might feel as we do about it—that it’s a sort of warning.
You know I said they were growing daring.” “Andy! Andy!” Miller cried.
“This won’t do.” “That’s what Morgan’s always saying,” Anderson
answered, “but in his quiet way he’s on tenterhooks himself. He’s
resisting the impulse to go, too.” “Has he a wife?” Miller asked. “A
daughter,” Anderson said slowly. “Any company for Molly?” Anderson
turned away. He seemed reluctant to reply. “No,” he said finally, “not
even for her father. Jim, I wish you’d try to judge that girl for
yourself—if you can, if you see her. You can’t tell about her. She’s
queer, elusive, unnatural. She troubles Morgan. Of course it’s a subject
we can’t discuss very well.” “Off her head?” “Judge her for yourself,
Jim, if you can. Frankly she’s beyond me.” “Another puzzle! And that’s
the entire population!”

“Morgan’s two brothers from the North have visited him once or twice.
They made it almost jolly. But they didn’t stay long. Don’t blame them.”
“And that’s all!” “On the island proper. There’s that native of whom I
spoke. One shrinks from him instinctively. He’s been hanging around ever
since we’ve been here, living in a flat-bottomed oyster boat, anchored
near the shore. At night I’ve thought I’ve seen him crawling silently
around the inlet in his filthy old tub.” “At least he doesn’t seem
superstitious.” Miller put in drily. “Rather a figure to foster
superstition. He seems to symbolise the whole thing.” “That’s a curious
fancy. What has he to say for himself? You’ve been aboard his boat of
course.” “Scarcely. Morgan tried that once out of bravado. He found no
one there—no sign of life. I’ve attempted time after time to get a word
with the man. I’ve hailed him from the shore. But he pays no
attention—either isn’t to be seen at all, or else stands on his deck,
gaunt and lean and hairy, etched against the sunset. You look at him
until you hate him, until you fear him.” “I can try my own hand there,”
Miller said. “Then that’s the total of your neighbours?” “There’s a
colony of oystermen working the marsh banks to the north of the island.
They live in thickets. They have the appearance of savages. Bait said
there’s a queer secret organisation among them.” Miller smoked in
silence for some moments, while Anderson watched him with an air of
suspense. Miller lowered his cigar and leaned forward. “This girl,
Andy?” “It’s hard to say anything more definite about her, and, if you
stay, I’d rather you followed my wishes there. Judge her for yourself,
Jim. And—and are you going to stay and help us back to mental health?”
“What do you think?” Miller asked a little impatiently. “You mustn’t
grow too

fanciful.” “If’s asking a great deal,” Anderson said, “because, sane
and strong-willed as you are, Jim, it isn’t impossible you should feel
the taint yourself.” “I’m not afraid of that,” Miller laughed. “I’ll
stay, but not in your house at first. I’ll live on the boat here in the
inlet where I can keep my eye on that fisherman of yours and get a broad
view of the whole island and its mystery. I’ll hold myself a little
aloof. You see it would be perfectly natural for you to row out and call
on a stranger anchoring here and invading your loneliness; natural for
you to bring Molly, say tomorrow; natural for me to return your call,
and eventually to visit you at the coquina house over night and
experience its dreadful thrills. That’s the way we’ll let it stand, if
you please, for the present. I’m a total stranger.” “Do as you think
best,” Anderson agreed gratefully. “Then that’s settled,” Miller said.
“Now how about dinner? You’ll stay?” Anderson arose. “No, Molly and Jake
are waiting. I know they’re worried, Jim. They won’t have any peace
until I’m safely back. These woods—we don’t like them even by day.”
Miller smiled. “I’ll do my best to purify them of everything but snakes.
I can’t promise about the snakes.” As he led the way up the ladder he
heard Tony open the sliding door. Glancing back, he saw the native, fear
in his face, waiting to follow. “There is something here that gets the
natives,” he whispered to Anderson. “Go home now and sleep, and tell
Molly to sleep. We’ll straighten things out in no time.” “You’ll do it,
if it can be done,” Anderson said. “If it can be done—” He grasped the
painter and drew his boat forward against the resisting tide. Miller
held the line while Anderson stepped in.

Anderson clearly shrank from the short journey back to the coquina
house. A sense of discomfort swept Miller. He felt the necessity of
strengthening his friend with something reassuring, with something even
more definite than reassurance. “And, Andy,” he said, leaning over the
rail. “if anything comes up—if you need me at any moment, send Jake, or,
if there isn’t a chance for that, call from the shore or fire a gun
three times. I should hear you.” “Thanks, Jim. I’ll remember,” Anderson
answered. He pushed his boat from the side of the Dart. The tide caught
it and drew it into the black shadows even before he had seated himself
and arranged the oars. Miller remained leaning over the rail, straining
his eyes to find the vanished boat. After a moment he tried to penetrate
the darkness for a light, for some sign of that other boat, the boat of
the fisherman. He could make out nothing. Yet it must lie somewhere over
there, harbouring that grim, provocative figure to which Anderson
attached such unnatural importance. As he leaned there he felt troubled,
uncertain. It had been a shock to see a man so, exceptionally sane as
Anderson suddenly deprived of his healthy outlook on life and death, and
struggling in this desperate fashion to regain it. He told himself he
had no slightest fear of the island or its lonely mysteries. That might
after all be a satisfactory explanation:—the loneliness, the climate,
the clinging mass of native superstition, the brooding over the
servants’ fancies, the consequent growth of sleeplessness, and, finally,
when nerves were raw, this first reminder of the snakes. It was enough
to work on the strongest minds. Miller smiled at Anderson’s fear that he
might become a victim too. Yet the impression of unhealth the place had
carried to him and which he had fought down before Anderson, had
returned. He leaned there wondering. He swung around at a sharp noise.
Tony was at the anchor chain again. “Afraid we’ll drag?” The native
pointed to the sky.

Only a few stars gleamed momentarily as heavy clouds scudded southward.
For the first time Miller felt the stinging quality of the wind. “It’ll
blow hard,” he said. “What a night! I’m going below. I’ll be hungry by
the time you have dinner ready.” He went down the companionway. The
other followed him so closely he could feel his warm breath on the back
of his neck. Tony went in the kitchen and started to get dinner. Miller
stretched himself on a locker. He arranged the cushions luxuriously
behind his head. He took from the shelf a book which he had found
fascinating only last night. He lighted his pipe. He tried to fancy
himself supremely comfortable and cosy. Tony came in after a few moments
and commenced to set the table. Miller blew great clouds of smoke
ceilingward. “Not so bad down here, Tony!” he said. “Confess, it
couldn’t look a bit different if we were tied up at the dock in
Martinsburg. Well?” He lowered his book. He glanced up. The pallor that
had invaded the native’s face at the command to anchor in Captain’s
Inlet had not retreated. The fear, too, that had burned in his eyes then
showed no abatement. It flashed over Miller that there was a
resemblance—not physical, but all the more disturbing because it
wasn’t—between the Anderson who had just come to him with his appeal and
the Tony who recently had bent to his command and traversed the Snake.
He found himself questioning if a mirror would not have shown an
alteration in his own countenance. The thought troubled him. To drive it
out he looked around— at the tapestry cushions, at the familiar ivory
panelling, at the four French prints. He had lied to Tony. It was not
the same. It did not look the same. It did not feel the same. He reached
up and opened the porthole to knock the ashes from his pipe. A vicious
gust of wind tore the brass frame from his hand and entered the cabin.
The lamp flickered. Beaching over to regain the frame, Miller’s eye
caught Tony. He had dropped his work. He leaned heavily against the
table, his mouth half open, his eyes fixed on the open port. Quickly
Miller realised that the silent native wanted to talk, wanted to tell
him something, strained to go back, doubtless, to those unhealthy
rumours whose

beginnings he had blurted out at the entrance of the Snake. Miller’s
irritation flamed into anger. Decidedly, between Anderson and this
superstitious fellow, his own poise would be threatened. Ridiculous! He
could not be intimidated by the atmosphere of any place, however lonely,
however tarnished by creeping lies. He slammed the frame shut and
screwed it tight. He swung on Tony. “What are you staring at now? Get
hold of yourself. Make up your mind to one thing; you’ll see no ghosts
on Captain’s Island while you’re with me. Hurry dinner.” It was the
first time he had used that tone with the man. He wondered at it, but
Tony returned to the kitchen, shrugging his shoulders. Miller, however,
noticed that a rule was broken. The kitchen door was left wide. After
dinner he went back to the book which he had thought fascinating last
night. Now its cleverness had dwindled. It failed to hold him. Tony,
whose invariable custom it had been to retire early to his bunk in the
kitchen, sat wideeyed in the doorway. Several times Miller was on the
point of commanding him to close the door. In the end he thought better
of it. These irritable impulses were foreign to’ his personality. They
might be looked upon as a manifestation of the place against which he
should guard. So when he went to bed, after keeping up his farce of
reading for half an hour longer, he tried to throw himself into an
attitude of amused comprehension. “If it will make you feel any better,
Tony, I’ll leave my door open a crack. Then you won’t have all the
spooks to yourself.” A sigh answered him. Tony’s light went out. The
boat was in darkness. Miller tried to sleep. But, in spite of the season
and the closed portholes, a chill, damp air invaded his stateroom. The
wind had increased to a gale. It beat furiously against the boat, which
rocked in the uneven gusts. The distant pounding of the breakers brought
a mournful undertone across the dunes. The stealthy passage of the tide
suggested the flight of such creatures as Miller knew must live and
torture in Tony’s superstitious imagination.

Chapter IV THE “QUEER” GIRL Convinced that he could not sleep, Miller
lay brooding over Anderson’s story, sympathising under the stress of
this night more and more with Anderson and Molly. Towards morning,
however, he must have dropped off, for, when he opened his eyes, the low
sun was shining through the port. The charnel house atmosphere had been
dissipated. The Dart lay on an even keel. Tony was up. The welcome odour
of coffee entered the stateroom. Slipping on his bathrobe. Miller
hurried to the deck, jumped overboard, and fought that racing tide until
it was on the point of vanquishing him. When he was dressed Tony brought
him his coffee. He sat on deck sipping it, calmly appraising his
surroundings, almost gleefully aware of the retreat of last night’s
fancies. He could see the fisherman’s boat now, anchored a third of a
mile away, close to the shore of the island. It was, as Anderson had
said, low, filthy, ancient; but its deck was empty, its owner nowhere to
be seen. Miller’s eyes followed the tangled shoreline in the hope of
glimpsing the coquina house. But the thicket was unbroken as far as two
gigantic mounds of white sand which stretched eastward from near the
river end of the island and evidently separated the river and the inlet.
From the tide Miller knew there must be an opening to the sea somewheres
down there. Probably the inlet made a sweep to the east and ran out
between the mounds and the dunes. The tradition that buccaneers had used
the inlet was perfectly understandable to Miller. Screened from the
marshes by the island and from the sea by the dunes, with a heavy fall
of tide, it had been an ideal spot for the careening of pirate craft.
The sun was higher now in a clear sky behind the dunes. The white grains
and the polished sea shells here and there glinted jewel-like in its
rays. On the summits tufts of long, slender grass waved languidly in a
light breeze. It was already warm. Tony came in and took the cup and
saucer. He was about to descend when he

paused with a long intake of breath. That same pallor came into his
face, that same fixed terror into his eyes as he stared across the
dunes. “What are you gaping at now?” Miller asked good-naturedly. The
lips opened. Tony whispered : “Look! In—in white!” During that outburst
of yesterday there had been, Miller recalled, something about a woman in
white, presumably the shade of the Algerian. He smiled. “Come, Tony! Not
by broad daylight. You only make yourself ridiculous.” “Look!” Tony
repeated. He pointed. Miller gazed across the dunes, shading his eyes.
There was something there, close to the sea; something white; something
that moved—a woman or a girl. He sprang up. Laughing, he jumped to the
lower deck and drew in the dingy. “There’s one ghost I’ll lay for you,
Tony.” “Don’t go,” the native begged. Miller stepped into the boat,
pushed off, and with a few strong strokes reached the dunes. He was
curious. He reacted to an exciting impulse. Who was this early morning
adventurer in white who moved across an empty shore! It might be the
girl of whom Anderson had spoken—that ” queer” girl about whom he had
maintained so puzzling a reserve. He hurried among the dunes, no longer
able to see the figure in white. But he remembered where it had stood,
not more than a quarter of a mile away. He crossed rapidly in that
direction, pausing only when the advisability of caution impressed him.
It would riot do to assume the usual at Captain’s Island. It was far
from ordinary that the girl should be there at all, clothed in this
fashion. He was by no means sure that he would offer her a welcome
encounter. She might try to elude him. Yet he had made a boast of the
affair to Tony. He wanted to convince Tony and himself that the normal
was not altogether foreign to the place. He planned, therefore, to step
from the dunes to the beach almost at her

elbow, but at the last dune he paused too long, fascinated by what he
saw thus at close range. She was a young girl, not more than twenty, he
thought, although at first he couldn’t see her face. She was not tall,
and she was very slender. As she stood, clothed in a long, clinging robe
of soft, white stuff, bending forward to the breeze, gazing across the
waves, she might have been a figure, animated and released from a
Grecian marble. Her hair, unloosed, was yellow and reached below her
waist. The breeze lifted vagrant strands which the sun caught and turned
to gold. And when she turned, as though his presence had been
communicated to her in some exceptional manner, he saw that she was
beautiful with an elfin face. So they stared at each other for a moment
across the sand. His eyes wavered. With a strong effort he forced them
back to hers. He was bewildered by her beauty, by her unexpected grace,
by her steady regard. The phrases he had formed, his questions, were
forgotten. It was as though in that first glance the girl had closed his
mind to everything except her physical presence which, after all, seemed
scarcely physical. A wild thought sprang against his reason. Tony’s
whisper! His talk of the woman in white! He would prove that if only to
convince Tony. So, sea and sky laughing at him, he stepped forward. She
relaxed her curving pose, moving back until the water was foaming at her
feet. Then he saw that her feet were bare. It had been only a moment,
yet he knew he must speak. He succeeded haltingly. “You’ll forgive the
curiosity of a Crusoe. My man said you must be a ghost. I’d like—” He
broke off, because his voice mocked him as though he were addressing
emptiness. Her face had shown no change. He was suddenly aware of a
barrier between them. The feeling angered him. He held out his hand. He
forced himself to move toward her. Like a flash she turned and ran up
the beach. Afterwards, when he reviewed the encounter, he was amazed,
worried. He only knew that the voice of custom had been silent, and that
he had answered to a new voice which he had not dreamed of questioning.
From where had this voice

come, and how had it reached him I He tried to tell himself that it was
the desire to go back to Tony with his boast fulfilled beyond argument,
for otherwise Tony would not have understood, would not have believed.
But that was not satisfying. It might have been their isolation on a
deserted beach and the challenge of her flight. Or, since it puzzled him
most, that feeling of a barrier could have been responsible. At any rate
the world narrowed for a few moments to the strip of beach and dunes. It
contained only himself and this girl who ran from him as though he had
violated a perpetual and prized solitude. He determined to come up with
her and dispel her selfish fancy. “Wait!” he called. “I only want to
ask—” Again that sense of emptiness mocked him. He ran. Although he knew
he should be able to catch up with her almost immediately, she gained at
first. And against this feeling of a barrier his determination
strengthened. He ran stumblingly, his hands held in front of him, a
growing stubbornness whipping him on. He went faster. He forgot to call
out reassuringly. With a startled glance over her shoulder she turned in
and darted among the dunes. He followed, breathing hard, his mind
closed. He saw her across the slope of a dune, not ten feet away. And
now the serene expression of her elfin face altered. There was fear in
her eyes. He wondered afterwards that he had not spoken to her then. But
the barrier was down. Nothing remained but the end which her inexcusable
flight had made necessary. The end came sooner than he had expected.
Cat-like, he walked around the dune. She started back. He turned as
though he would go the other way to head her off. She stopped, at a
loss. Suddenly he swung, and, tinglingly aware of the soft flesh beneath
the robe, grasped her arms above the elbows. He laughed nervously. He
stared at her wide eyes and at her face from which the colour had fled.
She strained away from him, yet there was no confidence and little
strength in her effort. He let her go. Covering her face, she sank back
against the slope of the dune, while the sand, whispering, slipped past
her. She drew her bare feet beneath her robe. Her hair fell forward,
veiling her face and hands. “How could you do that?” she asked. Her
voice was so low and soft he scarcely heard it. Oddly, the question held
no reproach.

He sat down beside her. “Why did you run?” he asked. “I—I was
frightened.” “That is not the reason,” he said conclusively. “You were
not frightened at first when you ran up the beach. I saw your face.” She
shivered. “No,” she said. “I cannot lie to you.” Then the world rushed
back to him. He remembered Tony and the boat a quarter of a mile away,
the island, the plantation, Anderson and Molly. How had he ever
accomplished this aberrant thing? He dug his fingers in the sand, and
watched the grains form minute, beautiful patterns. He scarcely dared
look at her. He was appalled, ashamed. “Really, you shouldn’t have run
like that,” he said apologetically. “You know I’m not an ogre.” She
turned. Her fear had gone. As she looked at him, surprised, he realised
more than ever that she was very lovely. “But you—why did you follow
me?” she asked. He considered. He had no convincing answer. “Perhaps it
was because I wanted to alter the bad opinion your flight suggested.
Frankly, it was an impulse. I can’t say where it came from.” “You should
not have followed me,” she said gravely. She arose. “Now you will let me
go.” “Wait!” He laughed lightly.

“Since you recall my ability to catch you, please don’t make me
exercise it immediately.” “What do you wish of me?” she asked with a
show of anger. “Please sit down and tell me of yourself. Can you blame
me for being curious?” Her anger died. She laughed back at him. She sat
down. “Since you want so little,” she said. “Then what were you doing on
this deserted strip of sand?” She flushed. “I often come—to swim. The
ocean is better than the inlet for that.” “Better, perhaps, but not as
safe. The undertow—” “It is safe,” she cried. “The sea and I are
friends.” “There is something elusive about you. It is hard to ask
ordinary questions. But where have you come from?” Where do you live!”
Yet he knew, or he thought he knew, when he asked her. “Must I tell you
that, too?” “It is very important.” “Why?” she asked. “Can’t you guess?
I want to see you again.” “No.” she said. “Yes. It is the only possible
sequel. And if you make me run after you, you ought to tell me where to
run.” She was troubled. She spoke almost inaudibly.

“You must not run after me again.” “Where, then?” he urged. She
hesitated. She pointed across the dunes. “On Captain’s Island?” “Yes.”
“In the plantation house?” She nodded. “Then you rowed across the inlet.
You didn’t see my boat?” “I rowed across the upper end. If I had seen
your boat I would have turned back.” “For once,” he laughed, “the Dart’s
insignificance is triumphant. And your father —he encourages these
dangerous excursions?” “They are not dangerous. I tell you the sea and I
are friends. Besides—” She smiled. “I think you haven’t looked at your
watch.” He drew out his watch. It was scarcely half past six. “But if I
don’t go quickly I might not be able to come back again.” Miller arose.
He helped her up. “Then of course,” he agreed, “the secret must be kept.
Only I wish you might stay a little longer. Since you seem inclined to
forgive my incomprehensible impulse—my schoolboy pursuit—” He broke off,
a little bewildered. “There is a good deal I’d like to ask you,” he went
on. “It has been very

unusual.” “Very—unusual,” she repeated uncertainly. He took her hand in
farewell. “At any rate,” he said, “I shall see you again.” “Don’t see me
again,” she begged. “I shall call at the plantation. You will be there!
You will see me?” She would not meet his eyes. “Don’t see me again.”
“But why! I wish it very much. Will you see me when I call?” “I don’t
know. I don’t know.” she whispered. “You will see me,” he said, and
released her hand. She ran lightly away from him. Once she glanced back,
then she was lost to sight among the dunes.

Chapter V JAKE’S PREMONITION Hands in his pockets, Miller gazed across
the rolling sands. He moved once or twice, seeking a less obstructed
view, hoping to see the girl’s graceful figure again. At last he filled
his pipe and smoked thoughtfully, questioning the whole extraordinary
encounter until a sense of its unreality swept him. But this he fought
back. It was not what he wished. Granted that his pursuit had been
arbitrary and inexplicable even to himself, he desired it to remain a
thing accomplished, a corner stone. Yet was it possible he had thrown a
command in his last words to her, and, looking into her eyes, had read
obedience? Certainly he had dealt with no ghost, but a ghost, he felt,
might have puzzled him less than this “queer” girl of whom Anderson had
spoken with such reserve. Queer, she undoubtedly was, and he was by no
means sure that in some obscure way his own queer attitude towards her
might not be laid at her door. But he was convinced that he had shot
wide of the mark when he had asked Anderson if she was off her head. He
walked back towards the inlet. All at once he realised he had not asked
her her name. The last he knew, but it would have been pleasant to have
heard her reply, to have known her first name, to have judged whether it
fitted her unconformable personality. Suddenly he laughed. He saw a wet,
bedraggled figure skulking among the dunes in his direction. “Stand up,
my valiant Tony,” he called. “Your rescue party’s superfluous.” Still he
appreciated the man’s devotion in swimming from the Dart to bring him
aid against the unknown. When he padded up, wringing the water from his
shirt, Miller tapped his shoulder. “I assure you, Tony, that ghost is
flesh and blood; flesh and—” The fact needed no iteration. The soft
yielding of her arms beneath his grasp had

come back to him. The last vestige of unreality fled from the
adventure. He led Tony to the dingy, whistling cheerily. He breakfasted
later with a huge appetite. He realised he was glad Captain’s Island was
what it was rather than what he had fancied it before receiving
Anderson’s letter. His happy humour lasted all morning. Had he tried he
could not have disguised its cause, for all morning the strange girl,
strangely met, lingered in his mind and tantalised. At times he even
forgot his set purpose of watching the fisherman’s tub, which, at least
when his eyes were on it, showed no signs of habitation. After luncheon
he anxiously awaited Molly and Anderson, but it was four o’clock before
he saw a row boat put out from shore. Even at that distance he
recognised his friends and the man, Jake, at the oars. He stood at the
rail until Tony had grasped the painter and helped them to the deck.
Molly’s appearance shocked Miller more than Anderson’s had done the day
before. She was scarcely thirty, and he had always known her as a
level-headed, light-hearted woman, unacquainted with life’s darker
aspects, and determined, as far as possible, to hold them at arm’s
length. Yet to-day she looked old. There were grey lines in her hair.
Her manner was nervous. She appeared too slender for her clothes. The
same constraint that had come to him at his first glimpse of Anderson
spoiled his meeting with this other old friend. He tried to throw the
feeling off. But Jake, when he spoke to him, added to it. In response to
his cheery greeting, Jake whispered: “Thank God, you’re here, Mr.
Miller. Make them go away. There’s death on the island. You feel it. If
we don’t leave it’s going to find some of us.” Miller couldn’t smile in
the face of this tragic conviction. “Don’t tell me you’re getting old
and fanciful, Jake.” He turned away brusquely. He led Anderson and Molly
below to display his comforts. But when, with the air of a museum guide,
he pointed out the four French prints, Molly sank on one of the tapestry
cushions, hid her face, and began to cry. Anderson put his hand on her
shoulder, while Miller looked on helplessly, his morning’s cheerfulness
evaporating.

Anderson cleared his throat. “I say, Molly—” She checked her outburst.
“Don’t laugh at me, Jim. Wait until you’ve been in our house—until
you’ve slept there just one night.” “I’ll angle for an invitation in a
few days.” “That’s wiser, I suppose,” Anderson said. “But return our
call tomorrow.” Molly sighed. “If we could only have Jim in the house.
Some one normal, with a will, and no nerves to speak of.” “We’ll let Jim
do as he thinks best,” Anderson answered. “Molly,” Miller said, “did
either Andy or you know you had nerves before you came to Captain’s
Island? When it hits back at you this way stubbornness is a vice.”
“You’re the last one to say that,” she answered. “You of all people! You
would have stayed.” “I have no belief in the supernatural.” “Neither
have we,” she said. “Or we didn’t have—One is sure of nothing here. Wait
until you’ve stayed a few days, then repeat that with conviction.” “I’ll
try, and remember this is medicine, so you must swallow it like good
children—I find the place attractive, cheerful.” “As we did,” Anderson
said, “when we saw it at first on a bright day like this.” “You forget,”
Miller replied, “I came in at dusk last night, and it stormed.” “And
last night!” Molly cried. “You felt nothing last night? You were
satisfied? You were glad to be here?”

Miller stared back without answering. His morning’s cheerfulness was
completely routed. “You were not,” she said with conviction. “and soon
even the sweetest days will be coloured for you like that.” “I wonder,”
he said softly. He suggested that they have their tea on deck, but Molly
was anxious to remain in the saloon. There, she explained, she saw for
the first time in two months no reminders of Captain’s Island. Miller
fostered her illusion by leading the conversation to friends in New
York, to happy experiences they had shared there. Afterwards they
prepared to leave with a reluctance that touched him. When they had
reached the deck Miller glanced at Tony and Jake forward. He realised
immediately his mistake in leaving the two alone together. They sat
there, staring at the island. Their faces were pale. When he called
sharply Jake arose and stepped into the boat with the air of a
somnambulist, while Tony indifferently, almost clumsily, approached the
task of loosing the painter. After Molly had entered the rowboat Miller
yielded to his curiosity. He overcame his embarrassment. He drew
Anderson to the opposite rail. “There’s some truth,” he confessed, “in
what Molly said down there. I did experience some discomfort last night
during the storm, but of course it was the loneliness, the oppressive
atmosphere, this vicious tide.” “I was afraid you might feel it,”
Anderson answered, ” although I’d hoped you’d keep above it.” “Nothing
has developed since we talked yesterday!” Miller asked. “Nothing—the
night at the coquina house was more than usually disturbed. That’s all.”
“Well—diet’s see—that girl of whom you spoke—you called her ‘queer.’”

Anderson glanced up, interested. Miller lowered his voice to a halting
whisper. “Isn’t there something more you can tell me about her?” “You
haven’t seen her!” Anderson asked quickly. Miller couldn’t go the whole
way. Either a sense of discomfort caused by his attitude towards the
girl, or a desire to isolate the knowledge of the adventure to its two
protagonists, made him glide over Anderson’s question. “I’m only more
curious since I’ve seen the place. You can’t blame me. Such a girl as
you describe, wandering about this lonely island! Since you think it
best I’ll wait and see for myself. But her father—Morgan—he’ll run out
and do the honours?” “Of course,” Anderson said, ” unless that girl—”
“Always that girl!” Miller said irritably. “Why do you make such an
enigma of her?” “Because,” Anderson answered simply, “that is what she
is—an enigma, a mystery; and, after all, I couldn’t tell you much beyond
that.”

Chapter VI THE SNAKE’S STRIKE It was clear and still that night.
Although he was not entirely free from the oppressive, indefinable
sensations of the previous evening, Miller slept better. Tony, on his
part, behaved in the same disturbing manner, sitting silent and
motionless in the kitchen doorway until Miller went to bed, then
extinguishing his lamp with evident reluctance. The daylight, however,
brought Miller’s cheerfulness back to him. He was early on deck,
scanning the dunes expectantly; but the girl did not come to the beach
that morning. Miller was sorry. He grew discontented. A small gasoline
launch rounded the end of the island at eight o’clock. Miller reawakened
to a sense of interest as it chugged noisily in the direction of the
Dart. It probably held Morgan. By deft questioning he might learn
something of the girl’s personality from her father. Why not, indeed,
say to Morgan: “I met your daughter on the beach yesterday”! But he
remembered he shared the secret of those early morning excursions with
her. Moreover, his effort with Anderson had convinced him that he could
not speak casually of her. Morgan was a small man, past fifty, with a
stout, pleasant face and a ready smile. He stepped aboard, introducing
himself easily. “Please be frank if you don’t care to be disturbed. I
thought I’d run over and see. I live in the house at the end of the
island. My name’s Morgan.” “I’m glad you’ve come,” Miller answered
warmly. “I hoped some one from that delightful house would.” “I suppose
you’re cruising up the coast.” Morgan said. “Yes—anchored here night
before last. I find it so attractive I’m in no great hurry to go on.”
Morgan laughed.

“When the impulse comes, think of us and resist it. A boat in the inlet
is an event. Yours is the first in three months.” Miller pointed at the
apparently deserted fisherman’s craft Morgan shrugged his shoulders. A
shadow crossed his face. “No company. A sour native. You see the
Andersons and my household are the whole community. Have you met the
Andersons!” “They rowed out yesterday.” “Now that you know us all you
must let us see a lot of you.” “I want to,” Miller said. “I’m anxious to
look at that old place of yours. It must have a history.” “Too much
history,” Morgan answered drily. ” Still it doesn’t do to run down one’s
own possessions—particularly when economy chains one to them. Come when
you wish. Naturally, you’re never likely to find me far away. “ Morgan
remained, chatting, for only a few minutes. Miller pressed him to stay,
for the little man amused him with his genial air and a dry humour.
Morgan, however, refused, saying he had promised to go to Sandport with
Anderson that morning. As he watched the launch disappear around the
bend Miller lost patience with himself. Why had he found it impossible
to speak of the girl to her father? That afternoon, at least, he would
take himself in hand. He would open a campaign. He would call on the
Andersons early, and afterwards return Morgan’s call. He had told the
girl to see him at the plantation house, and he recalled the shrinking
obedience in her eyes. If he did not see her he would throw off this
unaccustomed embarrassment. He would force himself to speak of her to
Morgan. As soon as he had lunched he told Tony to row him ashore. They
landed a quarter of a mile below the fisherman’s tub. He directed Tony
to return to the Dart. He said he would hail him when he wished to leave
the island. Then he took the path which Anderson had indicated. Stunted
cedars and oaks met in a thick roof overhead, and an undergrowth of

scrub palmettos and creeping vines was tangled waist-high between the
trunks. The thought of snakes was inevitable. An army of them might have
lurked unseen within a foot of where he walked. He stepped carefully,
looking at the ground, keeping his ears open. Before he had gone half a
mile the path widened into a small clearing from the rear of which the
coquina house rose with grey, uncompromising solidity. The trees cast
heavy shadows across its square front, and over the roof of the tiny
stable to its left, Miller paused. The agent had been right. This was
lonelier, more enclosed than Morgan’s place. Molly had evidently been on
the lookout, for she ran eagerly down the verandah steps to meet him.
“Jim! I’m so very glad you’ve come,” she called. “Where is Andy?” he
asked, taking her hand. “Had to go to Martinsburg,” she answered,
“—simply had to. An important letter from his brokers. He had to see a
lawyer right away and sign some papers. You can imagine how he hated it.
If he hadn’t known you were coming—” “But he’ll get back on the little
boat this afternoon!” “Unless this business positively chains him. In
that case he thought you would change your plans and stay here with Jake
and me.” “Of course I’d stay. That would be necessary.” “We’ll know a
little after six,” she said. “Mr. Morgan went as far as Sandport with
him to order some things for us both. I’ve been expecting him to come
by.” She laughed uncomfortably. “You see, Jim, I’ve been stark alone in
this ghastly place since luncheon.” “Jake?” he asked. “He started for a
walk.”

“Here! Without company! I gathered yesterday—” “Jake,” she said, “Was
trying to ripen an acquaintance with the Morgans’ cook. You’re right
Nothing less compelling would draw him so far afield alone on this
island. And it’s such a bright day I didn’t think I’d mind his going. I
urged him to go. A little relaxation—a little something cheering to
think about—you don’t know what that means to him, Jim. He ought to be
back soon.” Miller turned towards the verandah, but Molly seemed to
prefer the clearing. She made excuses for lingering there, pointing out
the small view of the inlet which Jake had achieved by cutting away a
few of the thickest trees, and describing the canvases which Anderson
had planned but had been unable to carry through. “Why, when the axe was
working,” Miller asked, “didn’t you tear out that mass of undergrowth
which threatens to swallow the house from the rear?” “Jake’s been afraid
to go in,” she answered. “He says he knows it’s full of snakes. Looks as
though it might be, doesn’t it? We haven’t dared take the responsibility
of forcing him to work there against his own judgment.” “Mayn’t I see
the house?” he asked. “I acknowledge you and Andy have some reason. Its
exterior has a frowning, inhospitable air.” She walked slowly to the
verandah. She held the screen door open, motioning him to enter. He
stepped into a large, square, windowless hall. Even with the door open
it was difficult to see at first, and he was chilled by the same
revolting atmosphere that had crept into his stateroom two nights
before. He shivered. “You ought to keep a light and a fire burning
here.” “It’s warm enough outside, isn’t it! Whole house is like this. We
keep the doors and windows wide, but the heat and light appear to prefer
the open.” “Sensible elements!” Miller muttered. The entire building
housed this air of chill decay, and, although the rooms were

large and comfortably furnished. Miller was restless in all of them.
Molly’s listening attitude troubled him. He wandered from parlour to
library to diningroom, and even to the kitchen. All bore testimony to
Molly’s devotion and determination. Molly, Miller made up his mind, must
be rewarded-No matter what happened he would see her and Anderson
through to the recapture of the mental peace for which they were
suffering on here. “Smoke, Jim,” Molly whispered when they were back in
the hall. “Why do we whisper?” Miller asked. “Then you do feel
something?” Molly demanded. He would not listen to his momentary doubt.
Pushing the screen door open, he stepped into the sunlight of the
clearing. The doubt became nothing. “Of course not,” he said. “What do
you think?” “Then don’t,” Molly begged. “You mustn’t. But you didn’t go
upstairs. Will you!” “Not now, “Miller answered. “I don’t want to
discount my first dreadful night in one of those bedrooms. When I do
stay you mustn’t fail to entertain me with your choicest spirits. “
“Perhaps there’ll be none for you,” Molly said wistfully. “That would
mean just nerves for Andy and me.” “I’ll prove it,” he laughed. He sat
down on the verandah and chatted pleasantly until Molly smiled and
laughed with him. Morgan appeared about half past four on his way home
from Sandport. Miller hailed him. Molly had just brought out the tea
things, and Morgan looked at them longingly. “May I?” Molly beckoned.

“A party!” she called. “That collection of huts,” Morgan said as he
came up and sat down,” seemed such a metropolis I hated to leave it, so
I lingered, ordering much more than I really needed. If Mr. Miller stays
on I think I’ll give a party myself in a day or two.” Miller laughed.
“Then there’ll be one on the Dart.” “We’ll capture the air of a real
winter resort yet,” Morgan said. He picked up the cup of tea which Molly
had poured and looked around with an air of contentment. “If Andy were
only back to enjoy this!” Molly sighed. “Did he say anything more?” “He
expected to catch the boat down to Sandport.” “I hope nothing keeps him.
You know I’m getting worried. I can’t imagine where Jake is. I think he
walked over to flirt with your cook.” Morgan’s eyes twinkled. “That,” he
said, “adds to the air of a true winter resort” “But it isn’t like him,”
she said uneasily. “He doesn’t know about you two. He wouldn’t be likely
to leave me alone so long.” “Time is no match for amorous skirmishing,”
Miller said. Yet, watching Molly, he saw her anxiety grow, needlessly,
he thought. When, therefore, Morgan arose after an hour, he asked if he
might not accompany him. “I had promised myself to call on you this
afternoon,” he explained, “and I will hunt up Jake and hurry him back.”
“Company through that piece of woods,” Morgan said, “is always a
blessing.”

Miller turned to Molly. “If I shouldn’t see him I’ll report here
immediately, if I may.” “If you would—” she said, relieved. He joined
Morgan at the foot of the steps. They crossed the clearing and walked
down the path to the shore where he had landed. “I’m glad I’ve a guide,”
Miller said. Morgan laughed. “I’m glad to have some one to guide. Wait
until you’ve seen the path from the shore to the quarters. It would make
a Stanley long for Darkest Africa.” “I’ve noticed,” Miller said with a
smile, “that you dwellers in this place answer to its loneliness
surprisingly.” “I’ve prided myself on my resistance,” Morgan answered,
“but the Andersons and I have had a long winter of it. I—I think the
place has gotten a little on our nerves. Don’t you judge any of us too
harshly, young man, until you’ve been here a reasonable length of time
yourself. Then, perhaps, you’ll get our standpoint. For instance, while
I’m not the least superstitious, the path we are going to take from the
shore to the old quarters has an unpleasant effect on us all. It comes
down to this : We prefer to walk it by day. Why? I don’t know. I can
only repeat that I have no belief in the abnormal.” They had reached the
shore. Morgan pointed to an opening in the jungle. “There’s the path.
Maybe you’ll see what I mean.” Immediately they had entered the forest,
Miller did, indeed, see. He understood, too, after a moment, why the
agent had failed to reach the quarters. The trees and underbrush were so
thick that he had an impression of walking in a low, narrow tunnel. He
had another fancy that the sharp palmetto scrub along the edges was a
warning chevaux de frise before a citadel impossible of assault. It was
necessary to go in single file, so Morgan stepped ahead. He no longer
spoke, and, in the half light of that thicket, breathing the heavy air
of vegetable

decay, Miller found his own silence compelled. They continued for five
minutes, during which Miller combatted and tried to analyse this
atmosphere, this deadening impulse to silence. He had made up his mind
to break the spell, to speak, when Morgan suddenly stopped with a
gasping intake of breath. Miller saw his companion’s shoulders grow
rigid, saw him slowly turn and reveal a pallid face and startled eyes.
Miller broke the silence now. His own heart was jumping. “What is it!
What did you see!” Morgan didn’t answer, but over his shoulder Miller
saw; and he knew that Anderson’s fear had been justified, that Jake’s
prophecy had been fulfilled, for a man’s outstretched body was half
hidden by the warning chevaux de frise. One booted leg lay eloquently
across the narrow, ugly path.

Chapter VII THE FOREST VIGIL MILLER had no doubts from the first. He
called with a queer catch in his voice : “Jake!” But Jake did not
answer. The tortured posture cried out the reason. Miller put his hand
unsteadily on Morgan’s shoulder. “Go ahead,” he said hoarsely. “Let’s
see. Let’s do—” “Dol” Morgan echoed. “There’s nothing to do. He’s dead.
Here—” His voice broke off. He stepped forward haltingly. They reached
the body and stared down at it with eyes that sought hope hopelessly.
There was no doubt as to the cause of death. The left trouser leg was
drawn up. Two holes showed above the ankle. It was easy to reconstruct
the tragedy. Jake had heard enough about rattlesnakes since he had been
on Captain’s Island to snatch at his only chance. So, instead of
attempting to run to the coquina house or the plantation, he had
evidently sat down in this jungle which had so justly terrified him and
done his best to fasten a tourniquet above the wound. His torn
handkerchief and a broken stick showed how hard he had tried. He had
never risen again. Perhaps it was too late when his repeated experiments
had failed, or, perhaps, his terror had held him prisoner. At any rate
there they found him, doubtless within a few feet of where the snake had
struck. Anderson’s words of two nights ago when he had spoken of his
fancy of the snakes rushed back to Miller. “Lately we’ve feared they
were growing daring, were getting ready to strike.” And there also came
back to Miller Anderson’s fear that the death of Molly’s pet had been a
warning from the snakes.

A snake had struck and death had followed, yet. Miller told himself,
there could be no possible connection between that tragedy and the
alleged supernatural manifestations which had so torn the nerves of his
friends. Morgan’s first words, however, reached him with a sense of
shock. “In this path! By heavens, it isn’t safe. It was here, just about
here, that Mrs. Anderson’s cat was struck the other day. We didn’t think
enough of that. We haven’t been careful enough.” Morgan controlled
himself with an effort. “Poor devil! And this will hit the Andersons
hard—all of us—” As he stood, looking down at Jake, Miller thought he
noticed something peculiar. He didn’t care to appear fanciful, nor did
he wish to give Morgan the impression that his own nerves were running
away with him. Moreover, he made up his mind he would have plenty of
time to convince himself when Jake had been carried to the house. He
spoke of that to Morgan. “Yes, yes,” Morgan agreed. He glanced at his
watch. “I wish Anderson was back. Maybe we’d better wait until then.”
“Yes,” Miller said, “and is there anything we ought to do—some
formality? I don’t know much about such things, but it seems to me—” “By
all means. It’s a coroner’s case,” Morgan answered. “We must avoid
getting tangled up in any unfamiliar red tape.” Miller nodded. “We’re
practically certain to run against a country official who’ll probably
use all the ceremony possible to impress us with his importance. But
what can we do? I suppose Sandport—” “It’s only a collection of
fishermen’s huts,” Morgan answered, “but I believe the coroner for this
coast section has his headquarters there. I guess it’s best to notify
him.”

He turned away. “This is hard to grasp.” “It has to be grasped,” Miller
said firmly. “It’s getting late. What we have to do should be done at
once.” “You’re right,” Morgan answered. “It’s the safest scheme. I’ll
send my man to Sandport to report the case and bring back the coroner.
If he hurries they ought to return a little after dark. Then he can
authorise the removal. Besides Anderson ought to be back by that time.”
“If he only comes!” Miller muttered. “There’s a possibility he won’t,
you know. Anyhow, go ahead. I’ll stay here with Jake until the errand’s
done, until we’ve satisfied all the pitiful formalities.” He paused. He
bit his lip. “But there’s Mrs. Anderson. Confound it! Why isn’t Anderson
here? She must be told. If neither Jake nor I shows up as I arranged
with her, she’ll be frantic with anxiety. If you don’t mind you’d better
tell your man to stop and give her the facts.” “It won’t do,” Morgan
said. “One of us must take that task, unpleasant as it is. I’ll try to
do it myself. I’ll hurry on to the plantation and get my man off, then
I’ll go to the coquina house and do the best I can.” Morgan started up
the path, but after he had taken a few steps he turned back. “You don’t
mind staying here? It won’t be long.” Miller shook his head, and Morgan
went on. The forest closed behind him and hid his hurrying figure.
Miller lighted his pipe, but the smoke seemed to thicken the heavy
atmosphere. Instead of soothing it irritated his nerves. After a moment
he let the pipe go out. So this was the end of his joyous and determined
plans to call at the plantation and force, if possible, another
interview with the ” queer” girl! He frowned. It seemed that there was
always something arising to limit his knowledge of her to that
mystifying encounter on the beach.

In a few minutes Morgan appeared with his man. He had evidently
explained the situation, for the fellow’s face was white and frightened,
and he went by almost at a run with averted head. “I’ll be back as soon
as I can,” Morgan said as he went on to the shore and his disquieting
task at the coquina house. Alone again, Miller settled himself to wait
and watch. The light was already failing in that thick vegetation. For
some moments he paced up and down, glancing at Jake, dead in this
unspeakable way. But that peculiar impression he had received troubled
him. He made up his mind, coroner or no coroner, to satisfy himself
immediately. He approached the body on tiptoe. He knelt beside it. He
leaned over. He even raised one of the wrists to examine the under side.
His impression had not been pure fancy. The skin of the wrists appeared
to have been bruised. He could detect what might have been abrasions.
But it was all very little. As he arose and pondered, the picture
Anderson had drawn of the tongue-tied, powerful fisherman, outlined
against the coloured sky, came into his mind and lingered. Yet he had
not even seen the man himself, and that picture was unquestionably the
expression of the hatred Anderson had formed for him. Anyway these
slight marks might merely be testimony of some escapade, some accident,
several days old; for that matter, mute reminders of Jake’s struggles to
fasten the tourniquet above the wound. But the feeling of the place
crept into Miller’s material brain. While the light continued to fail he
resumed his pacing. Morgan was back in half an hour. He was breathing
hard as though he had come quickly through the darkening path. He
carried Anderson’s shot gun. He handed it to Miller. “I thought it might
be some company,” he explained, “because I—” “And Mrs. Anderson?” Miller
asked. Morgan waved his hand in a helpless gesture. “If her nerves
hadn’t been in such a state anyway!” he said. “I did the best I could,
but it was hard—hard. I offered to stay with her, but she preferred to
be alone until her husband came. She said it would only be a few
minutes. If he’s coming, it will.” “The boat might be late,” Miller
said.

“We’ll hope that’s it. You’re sure you don’t mind waiting here for the
coroner, because I ought to be at the plantation. You see—” He paused.
Miller wondered if it was the girl who was calling him back. Morgan
cleared his throat and verified his guess. “My daughter is alone there,
except for the cook. I am not in the habit—I suppose I ought to go
back.” “Certainly,” Miller said. “I’m right as can be here until the
others arrive.” “Come for me if you need me,” Morgan directed. “And tell
the Andersons they’d better run on over and spend the night at the
plantation. It won’t be very pleasant for them in the coquina house
after this. If they’ve any scruples about leaving tell them to keep my
man to help in any way he can. “ Miller thanked him absent-mindedly.
Since Morgan had introduced the subject himself, here was an exceptional
chance to speak of the girl, to lift, perhaps, the veil from her
uncommon and fascinating personality. He crushed down the desire to
speak. He couldn’t do it under these circumstances. So, reluctantly, he
saw Morgan go. It was nearly dark now. He was glad Morgan had brought
the gun. He liked the feel of the sleek barrels as he carried it cradled
under his arm. The dusk deepened. Infernally the minutes lengthened. The
night had an oily quality. He could almost feel it slipping down,
thickly, chokingly. Pretty soon he couldn’t see the path. Jake’s body,
which had grown dimmer and dimmer, was no longer before his eyes. The
branches were so thick that he couldn’t be sure the stars were shining.
Once or twice he stumbled, and he stood still, not daring to move for
fear of leaving the path to flounder helplessly in that thicket whose
revolting life had already done for one of them. He heard rustling
sounds increasing about him. He was practically certain that they were
leaves whispering in the breeze, yet that feeling of the snakes, of
which Anderson had spoken, came to him in all its force. It was easy to
fancy these rustling sounds were made by snakes circling him and slowly
closing their circle. It was difficult for him to argue reasonably as he
stood by black night in the heavy repellent atmosphere of that forest,
in a place he knew was avoided for two things : the supernatural and
poisonous snakes. Jake’s invisible body

testified how deservedly. Those sly noises, such as snakes might make,
grew everywhere about him. And he was defenceless, to all purposes a
blind man, unable to avoid the creeping horror. He realised now the
state of mind into which the island had thrown Anderson and Molly. He
held his nerves in leash by a severe effort of the will. He lost all
track of time. It seemed to him that midnight must have come and gone
before he saw a lantern waving through the jungle. “Here they are,” he
thought. “I’m not sorry this is ended.” But it was Molly, bravely
strangling her terror, coming through the forest alone. “Molly!” he
called. “What’s the matter?” She started to run. She had almost reached
him when he saw her go down. He heard the tinkling of the lantern
chimney as it shattered. He put out his hands against the darkness
rushing in again. He stumbled towards her. He found her. He got his arms
around her and lifted her up. She was half laughing, half crying
—laughing hysterically from her accident and her relief at finding him,
and crying because of her grief and her fear. Anderson, she said, must
have missed his boat for he had not returned. Morgan’s man had come back
from Sandport alone. The coroner had refused to follow until morning. He
had made no comprehensible excuse. Evidently he shared the general,
ignorant fear of Captain’s Island. Even duty had failed to drag him
there after dark. Miller groaned. “Where is Morgan’s man?” he asked.
Molly shivered. “The coroner must have frightened him. Or else he had
some experience on the road from the end of the island of which he won’t
speak. When he got to the coquina house he refused to leave even to
return to the plantation. Instead he was sitting cowed and shaking, over
a blazing fire he’s built in our kitchen. Jim, this is dreadful! I can’t
realise. Where—?”

But Miller reached out and found her arm. He grasped it. “No, Molly,
that would be foolish. It is dreadful, as you say. But we must face the
facts and be sensible. You and Andy must not let this weigh on you. K
you can’t rise above it you’ll have to leave Captain’s Island.” “Feeling
as we do! We can’t.” “Then,” he said determinedly, “you can not brood
over Jake.” He felt her aim tremble. “When it’s our fault!” “That’s
nonsense. Now listen, Molly. You must go right back to the coquina
house. It’s hard luck you broke the lantern, but you can follow the
path.” The muscles of her arm tautened. She drew closer to him. “And
spend the night there alone, except for that frightened man! Jim,
anyway, I came with the lantern, but I can’t—I can’t go through that
path alone now, without light. Don’t ask it.” Miller was in a quandary.
He shrank from the only way out. “What time is it?” he asked. “It was
nine o’clock when I left the house.” Six or seven hours to daylight! He
knew there was no chance of relief from Morgan. When his man failed to
return to the plantation he would naturally conclude that everything had
been attended to, and that the Andersons had acted on his suggestion and
kept him for the night. There was no other course. Miller decided,
indefensible as it was, that it would be wiser to leave Jake to the
things that prowl by night than to keep Molly during those long hours in
that piece of forest. iWhen he proposed it, however, Molly refused even
to consider the plan. “Jake’s been faithful to Andy and me for a good
many years. If we had let him go back to New York, instead of forcing
him to stay here against his will, he would be alive now. No, Jim, we
can be faithful to Jake for a few hours no

matter what it costs. I’ll stay, Jim. I’ll watch with you. Don’t say
anything more.” Miller knew that argument was useless. So they stayed
and suffered through the night. More than once Miller was tempted to
fire his gun in the hope that Morgan might hear and come to them. It
wasn’t merely that they could see nothing, that Jake’s body lay so near,
even that those stealthy noises such as snakes might make caused their
flesh to creep. It was something else; something which, Molly said, you
felt in that piece of forest more than anywheres else on the
island—felt, and loathed, and couldn’t analyse.

Chapter VIII THE CORONER FROM SANDPORT They suffered through those
hours because they were together, yet when the dawn came they looked at
each other as though they had been strangers. Molly, haggard and
shaking, went down the path then on her way to the coquina house. Miller
watched on alone in the sickly, early light. He pulled himself together
with a struggle. It was easier now to find comfort in logic, to assure
himself that his agitation had been caused by the night and the
loneliness, aided by the state of mind Molly and Anderson had impressed
upon him. “First thing I know,” he said to himself, “they’ll have me as
much under the spell as they are themselves.” He could smile a little at
that thought even now. The night had chilled him. He paced up and down
vigorously while the light strengthened. Here and there a sunbeam broke
through and flashed across the foliage. He grew ashamed of his
uncomfortable emotions of the dark hours. It was still early when he saw
Morgan walking down the path from the plantation. Morgan stopped,
surprised and anxious. “Why are you still here? The coroner didn’t come.
And Anderson?” Miller explained the situation. “And I stayed at the
house and slept peacefully,” Morgan said with regret. “Why didn’t you
run up and get me to help out? I thought when my man didn’t return —”
“What was the use of disturbing you?” Miller asked. “Only,” Morgan
answered,” because two might be better than one for an all night watch
here—particularly under the circumstances. Some action ought to be taken
against that coroner. It was his business to answer the call.”

Miller laughed a little. “After spending the night alone in this piece
of woods I’m not so sure there isn’t something to be said in his
defence. It’s odd how a little loneliness, a little darkness, and the
thought of death will make the poise of the strongest of us topple.”
“It’s this rotten patch of woods,” Morgan muttered. “I’m proud of my
poise, but I wonder if I would have pulled through such a night as fresh
as you.” “Surely,” Miller said. “One suffers temporarily, then the
reaction comes, and you almost want to try it again to prove what a fool
you’ve been.” But as he spoke Miller knew he did not want to try it
again. “I was on my way to the coquina house,” Morgan said. “But you’d
better let me relieve you until the others come.” “Thanks,” Miller
answered. “I suppose I ought to report to my man. He was expecting me on
the boat for dinner last night. I’ve no doubt he thinks the spooks have
carried me off and turned me into a spook myself.” He handed Morgan the
gun, and went down the path, keeping his eyes open for signs of snakes.
That was one element of danger on the island whose existence he was
willing to admit As he stepped from the woods the sight of the Dart
filled him with a sense of unreality. It was, however, the very real
nature of the picture which gave birth to this not altogether
comfortable impression. He paused on the shore and stared, a little
bewildered, while his eyes accustomed themselves to the glamour of an
unclouded sun above reflecting water that was glass-like. After the
heavy shadows of the forest path it seemed a miracle such light should
exist at all. The Dart appeared to be suspended in the midst of this
dazzling spectacle’ Beyond her the dunes had the effect of a mirage. The
usually mournful and insistent pounding of the breakers had fallen to an
indifferent drone. Miller closed his eyes. What he had seen struck him
with a sense of shame after

his experience in the forest. For a moment he felt physically ill. He
bent his mind to the conquest of his weakness. He recalled Tony. He
could fancy the native’s frame of mind. After all, he owed Tony the
release of that fear. So he opened his eyes again. But there was no one
on the deck of the Dart, yet, under the circumstances, he could not
imagine Tony waiting below. He glanced along the beach and saw the
dingy. Then Tony, since he had not passed through the forest, must be at
the coquina house, unless, indeed, he had yielded to his panic and left
the island altogether. He turned and looked at the fisherman’s craft. It
floated, filthy and uncared-for. No one was to be seen, nor did its deck
disclose any record of recent activity. It lay in the still water like
an abandoned hulk. It conveyed the air of tragedy that invariably clings
to a wreck when the destroying storm has fled before calm and sunshine.
Why, Miller asked himself, should this be so? Why did the fisherman fail
persistently to show himself? As he walked slowly towards the coquina
house he completed the conquest of his disagreeable sensations. There
would be work to-day requiring a clear head and strength. With Morgan he
would have to divide the responsibility of Molly and the dead until
Anderson returned. If only there was some way to communicate with
Anderson! Unquestionably he would not return until evening when the
little boat would come down to Sandport from Martinsburg. It was another
reminder of their isolation, of their helplessness. When he stepped into
the clearing Miller saw Tony and Morgan’s man standing in front of the
coquina house. The sight of Tony was a tonic for Miller. It helped rout
the last of his uneasy thoughts. For Tony’s face was white. As Morgan’s
man talked to him he glanced repeatedly over his shoulder. He raised his
hands once or twice. They shook. Miller accepted it as a matter for
pride that the man should have remained on the island in this state of
fear without his master’s restraining influence. The other, Miller saw,
was in no better case. His eyes, too, had evidently been strangers to
sleep last night. Miller did not need to hear any words. The subject of
their conversation was confessed by their

faces. “Well, Tony!” Miller called. Like a flash Tony turned and ran to
him, and Morgan’s man sidled forward as if, even by daylight, he craved
company in this place. “You spent the night on the Dart?” Miller asked.
Tony nodded. The gesture in which he spread his arms was eloquent of the
torture of those hours when he had been doubtful of Miller’s fate. “Then
you know everything,” Miller said. “This fellow’s told you.” Again Tony
nodded. “I couldn’t wait. I came here. I didn’t know where else—” “Your
solicitude is pleasing, Tony. You see I’m quite myself still—altogether
material.” He glanced at Morgan’s man. “And you passed your entire night
here?” The man looked away. “Yes,” he muttered. “May I ask why?” Shame
flashed across the fellow’s face. His voice was little more than a
whisper. “It’s easy to ask,” he said. “Therefore I ask.” The red
deepened. “I had come from the end of the island already, and the path
through the woods —it was too dark. It was better to stay there.”

He pointed towards the house. “Although that was empty, and I ain’t
anxious to try it again.” The flush faded. He spoke with more confidence
now. Evidently he felt his plainly confessed terror was justified. “When
you ask like that all I can say is you haven’t tried it yourself.”
“But,” Miller said, “I spent the night in that piece of forest you were
afraid to cross. Nothing happened to me. What are you talking about?”
The man shook. “I don’t see how you did it,” he whispered. “I don’t see
how you did it.” Miller laughed shortly. “Come! That’s enough. Tony’s
growing nervous. You’ve forgotten the sun’s shining now. I must have a
little commonsense from both of you. No word of the coroner yet?” Tony
pointed at the house. “He came five minutes ago,” Morgan’s man answered.
“Inside with Mrs. Anderson.” “Why didn’t you tell me?” Miller snapped,
annoyed at the delay. He hurried to the house and entered the damp,
unhealthy hall. As the door closed behind him his ugly thoughts of last
night rushed back. Without any other provocation than the air one
breathed here he could imagine Molly and Anderson hating this house. A
voice came to him from the diningroom. Immediately it aroused a
disagreeable sensation. It reached Miller raspingly. Its nasal tone was
almost belligerent. A sob from Molly brought it to a pause. Then it
continued on the same note. Miller stepped forward. Molly had evidently
heard his entrance, for she met him

in the diningroom doorway. Her face was red from weeping. Miller could
not be sure her tears had any source beyond the tragedy. He had not
caught what the other had said, but he felt if the coroner was
responsible in the slightest degree for this breakdown he would like to
force that rasping, nasal voice to the humiliating softness of apology.
The coroner followed Molly into the hall. Miller glanced at him. He was
a lanky native, uncouth and with a sharp-jawed, assertive face. His
stringy moustache was stained and repulsive. He wore a frock coat which
appeared, not unreasonably, as old as himself. In his hand he carried a
black felt slouch hat. As soon as he saw him Miller was glad Morgan and
he had decided not to violate any of the formal procedure in such cases.
“Has anything unexpected happened?” he asked Molly. She shook her head.
“I’ve just been talking to the coroner, Jim. This is Mr. Miller,” she
went on, motioning the man forward. “Mr. Miller is a very dear friend of
ours—a very old friend. I think he will look after everything as much as
possible. As—as I told you I’d rather not be troubled any more than is
necessary.” Her voice trailed away. “That’s all right, ma’am,” the
coroner rasped out. “I’ve heard your story. Don’t see much to be gained
by asking you any more now.” “Jim,” she said pitifully, “I didn’t
realise some of the things he’s told me.” “Don’t think of them, Molly.
He’s said he’s through with you. Trust me for the rest.” “Why are you
here?” she asked. “Who—who’s with Jake?” “Morgan. He came along early.
He was on his way to you. Of course he didn’t know we’d been there all
night.”

The coroner started. “You were alone all night back in that patch of
woods?” he asked. Miller nodded. “If you’ll go on out to the clearing,”
he said, “I’ll join you in a moment.” The coroner glanced from one to
the other suspiciously. At last he swung on his heel. “Tell the truth,
I’m not against a little sunshine. Say, this house can’t be healthy
—damp as a graveyard in the springtime.” Molly drew back. She passed her
hand across her eyes. “Go on,” Miller said irritably. The coroner opened
the screen door and stepped outside. “Did he—did he annoy you?” Miller
asked. “Was he at all nasty?” Molly sighed. “I suppose not. I suppose
all he asked and said was necessary. You’d better go with him now, Jim.”
“And you?” “I’m all right alone.” “I wish I could be sure.” “At any
rate,” she said, “there’s nothing else for it at present. Don’t keep him
waiting, Jim. We don’t want him to make it any harder.” “Very well,” he
said. “I’ll leave Tony. He’ll be in the clearing within easy call.” She
thanked him, motioning him to hurry. So he followed the coroner to the
clearing.

Immediately Miller was sorry he had sent the officer ahead, for, his
unpleasant voice subdued to an undertone, he was speaking to Tony and
Morgan’s man, and they listened with increased uncertainty, glancing
again over their shoulders. It did not appear to Miller that the coroner
questioned them. “Hello!” he called from the steps. “Shall we be off?”
The coroner turned. He studied Miller, while, with a leisurely air, he
took a plug of black tobacco from his pocket, bit off the end, and
commenced to chew. Miller came forward. “I say, is there any point in
delay?” The coroner continued to stare. Miller fought down the sense of
antagonism the man had aroused. He knew it wouldn’t do. Molly had been
wise. There was nothing to be gained by encouraging him to mate a
difficult task more painful. He was fair enough to ask himself if this
antagonism was justified. After all was it not bom of his own disturbed
and restless state of mind? On the other hand, what possible excuse did
the coroner have for fanning the unintelligent emotions of these two
frightened servants? Miller fought back his exasperation. He put his
hand on the other’s arm. He softened his voice. He tried to fill it with
appeal. “I mean this is a pretty bad business for us. The man, Jake, had
been with the Andersons for years. I’d known him as long as they’d had
him. These formalities —I realise they’re necessary and all that—but
they’re dreadfully unhappy for us, so the sooner they’re over—I’m sure
you understand.” The coroner shifted his weight. “I’m not holding back.
I ain’t looking to hang around here any longer than I have to. Say, do
you think I’m holding back on my job? Is that what you’re trying to tell
me?” “No, no,” Miller hastened to assure him.

“Then let’s go,” the coroner said, and, side by side with Miller,
started across the clearing. “Those two,” he commented, “don’t seem to
be having a mighty pleasant time on this island.” “Yes, they’re inclined
to be nervous,” Miller answered drily. “Act as though they’d seen
something,” the coroner said. He glanced up. “Understand, I ain’t
blaming them.” “I suppose you questioned them,” Miller said. “What’s the
use? Didn’t need to ask much. They don’t know. Just scared.” After a
moment he repeated : “Don’t blame them.” They walked out on the shore.
The coroner hesitated before the entrance to the evil path. “Up there,
eh!” he muttered. “Up there!” He impressed Miller as reluctant to enter
the path. “Mrs. Anderson,” the coroner said, “told me you found the
body.” “Mr. Morgan and I. We were on our way through the path to the
plantation house.” “That lady,” the coroner mused, “was quite some
upset. Don’t seem altogether natural, except—” He broke off. Miller
noticed that a little of the colour had left his uncouth face. “And
where’ll we find Mr. Morgan?”

“Up the path with Jake,” Miller answered shortly. The delay here was
annoying—it seemed so pointless. At last the coroner overcame his
evident reluctance and stepped into the path. Miller followed him. They
walked slowly. The coroner glanced apprehensively to either side as they
penetrated deeper into the forest. “There’s one thing,” Miller said. His
voice had fallen to the whisper almost commanded by this place. The
coroner failed to encourage him. “It’s been on my mind a good deal,”
Miller went on. “I was alone with Jake for some time and it was nearly
dark, but I noticed something odd about the wrists.” He waited for the
coroner to speak, to question. But the other walked on slowly. He
glanced with increasing frequency into the impenetrable thicket.
“Something odd about the wrists,” Miller repeated. “There were marks—
abrasions.” Still the man said nothing. “I thought it a curious phase,”
Miller insisted. “What do you think?” The rasping quality had left the
coroner’s voice. It reached Miller, low and a trifle choked. “I don’t
think until I see.” His back beneath the rusty frock coat shook a
little. “Can’t understand why anybody wants to hang out in this hole
anyway.” “If you had come last night as we wanted you to—” Miller began.
The other glanced over his shoulder. “Why didn’t you?” Miller asked
bluntly.

“When I have to come to a place like this after sundown,” the coroner
answered, “my job’ll be open to somebody else. How much farther is it?”
“Just ahead,” Miller answered. “You can see Mr. Morgan now.” Morgan, at
the sound of their voices, walked down the path. Miller saw at once that
the officer made an unfavourable impression on him, too. “I’m glad
you’re here,” Morgan said coldly. “If you had come last night you would
have spared Mrs. Anderson and Mr. Miller a very serious inconvenience.”
Miller motioned Morgan warningly, but the coroner faced him with a touch
of anger. The presence of a third person appeared, in a measure, to have
restored his self-assertion. “I’ve just been telling him,” he said
roughly, “that no law can haul me to this island after sundown.”
Morgan’s eyes narrowed. “What’s the matter with this island?” he asked
quietly. “You live on it. Beckon you ought to know better’n me. Go
ahead. Who’s delaying the procession now?” Miller shrugged his
shoulders. Morgan clearly understood his opinion. Without answering the
coroner’s impertinence, which had really seemed studied, he turned and
led the way up the path to Jake. The coroner looked about him uneasily.
Then he hurried through the formalities, authorising the removal. He
arose. His sharp expulsion of breath approximated a sigh. Unconsciously
he inserted a comedy touch in the desolate scene by whisking the dust
from his frayed and stained trousers. “That’s all we want here,” he
said. Miller could not comprehend. He had watched the man. He examined
his face carefully now. It disclosed only a pallid uncertainty, perhaps
not surprising in the circumstances. Yet he had rushed through the
formalities with a haste almost indecorous. Not once had he referred to
Miller’s definite statement about Jake’s

wrists. His eyes wavered before Miller’s glance. “Come on. I want to
get out of here,” he said. Miller stepped closer. “One minute. You’ve
forgotten something.” The man turned disagreeable. “Not that I know of,”
he snarled. “Yes,” Miller insisted. “I spoke to you about the marks on
Jake’s wrists.” “Well? I heard you.” Miller was at a loss. “I say I
heard you,” the coroner repeated. “Now let’s move out of here.” Miller’s
impatience momentarily overcame the caution he had impressed upon
himself. “But you haven’t said anything,” he cried. “A matter as
important as that! It might lead to something.” The colour rushed back
to the coroner’s cheeks. His voice stormed. “Who do you think you are?”
Miller faced him squarely. “It is my duty to insist on an examination of
the wrists.” “Who says they haven’t been examined?” the coroner rasped.
“Do I have to account to you for everything I do?” Morgan laid a
restraining hand on Miller’s arm.

“That’s what I wanted to know,” Miller answered; “simply whether you
had examined the wrists and were satisfied.” The coroner looked at him
curiously. “See here, young man, are you trying to make a fool of me?”
“One doesn’t feel the impulse to humour at a time like this,” Miller
answered testily. “If I can’t get you to take the marks seriously
there’s no more to be said.” “I didn’t see any marks that amounted to
anything,” the coroner muttered. Miller examined the wrists again. The
abrasions had, in fact, practically disappeared over night. Still he was
not satisfied. He turned back to the coroner. “There are a lot of
uncivilised oystermen working the banks to the north of the island,” he
said. “You know it—or ought to—better than I.” “Who are you,” the other
burst out, “to say who’s civilised and ain’t? What’s more, if you think
you’re fitter to run my job than I am, just say so and that’s all the
good it’ll do you.” “Hold on,” Morgan put in quietly. “If Mr. Miller is
suspicious of any point he is perfectly within his rights to insist upon
its thorough investigation.” Miller nodded. “And do you know, Mr.
Coroner,” he asked, “anything about the fisherman anchored in the inlet?
You must have seen his boat from the shore as we came here.” “Yes, I saw
his boat.” “You may not understand,” Morgan said. “That fisherman is a
very unsatisfactory figure. He has puzzled us a good deal.” The
coroner’s wrath overflowed its bounds, none too strong. Miller decided,
at the best. “If you want trouble and investigations I can give you
plenty of both. I can make

it so damned uncomfortable that you’ll never get your spunk up again to
interfering with an officer of the law that’s doing his duty as he sees
it Uncivilised! And a poor fisherman can’t anchor his boat near your
rotten island without getting sneered at by you two. And what’s it all
about?—some marks on the wrists you thought you seen. What if you did?
He probably got them thrashing about in the palmetto. That man died of
snake bite. Do you want this permit, or shall I tear it up? I ought to
do it.” Miller reached out his hand and took the permit. He had been
beaten. There was nothing more he could do with the coroner. Yet the
man’s explanation of the cause of those marks fell far short of
satisfying him. In fact, as he walked down the path, he gazed at the
rusty shoulders with a growing uneasiness. He wondered if the coroner
hadn’t brought into the mystery one more disturbing element.

Chapter IX THE GRAVE IN THE SHADOWS When they reached the clearing in
front of the coquina house, the coroner, who had accomplished the
journey in silence, promulgated his last order. Miller guessed it was
that which had so affected Molly. “I forgot to tell you,” the coroner
said, “the law’s clear. The burial must take place by sundown.”
“To-day!” Miller cried. “What day do you think?” “Wait a minute,” Miller
said. “I don’t believe there’s any clergyman in Sandport. Is there?” The
coroner snickered. “We’re mostly peaceful fishermen over there. Don’t
need such things. Now and then on a Sunday night a young preacher drops
down from Martinsburg.” “But this isn’t Sunday,” Miller said. “If you
mean you want one for the ceremony,” the coroner answered brutally,
“there ain’t a chance. You’ll have to get along without. Well, so long.
I’m glad I’m getting away from this place. Family didn’t want me to come
at all, but they don’t understand the law.” Half way across the clearing
he paused and turned, back, calling out. Miller raised his hand in an
angry demand for silence, for he knew Molly must hear. “By sundown, and
don’t you forget it!” His lanky form was swallowed by the underbrush
bordering the path to the river end of the island. “What do you think of
him?” Miller asked Morgan.

Morgan shook his head. “Strange,” he said, “he didn’t care to go into
those marks.” “When I first told him of them,” Miller answered, “he
didn’t show the slightest curiosity. You’re right. It was strange.” The
coroner’s mandate added to the difficulty of their situation. Miller
glanced towards the house. “She’s in there. Why in heaven’s name did
Anderson have to be away at this one time?” He looked up. “Of course all
Sandport knew he had left yesterday.” “Come,” Morgan said “It won’t do
to grow too fanciful, although I must say the coroner impressed me
disagreeably enough. Yet we must remember he was afraid to come last
night.” Since there was so little time they agreed on the necessary
arrangements. Morgan sent his man to Sandport for the local undertaker.
Tony, and the man, when he had come back, dug the grave on the edge of
the clearing by the coquina house. There was really little choice—the
open spaces on the island were so few. Then remained the difficult task
of waiting for Anderson, and— hardest of all—the responsibility for
Molly. At last Miller gathered his courage and entered the house.
“Molly!” he called from the sombre hall. At first she did not answer and
a great fear grasped his throat. “I say, Molly!” he faltered. “Yes,
Jim,” her voice came from the head of the stairs. “Don’t worry.” “But up
there!” he said. ” Isn’t it dreadfully depressing up there?”

“Not cheerful, Jim, but would any other place be more so to-day? I know
what you’ve been doing. I want to stay up here.” Perhaps it was best to
humour her. Worn out by her night of watching, she might find rest.
Miller walked to the verandah. Morgan and he sat there, talking in low
tones. Tony and Morgan’s man wandered about the clearing, restless, as
if expectant of something unforeseen. Morgan went home at luncheon time
and took his man. Miller had no appetite. Moreover, he felt it his duty
to remain where he was. He called Tony to him. During the morning the
native had grown momentarily more morose, more nervous. Miller directed
him to return to the Dart, get his luncheon, and remain there afterwards
until he hailed him. Morgan was back long before Anderson had put in an
appearance. In fact it was late in the afternoon when Anderson walked
into the clearing from the direction of Sandport. As soon as he saw him
Miller realised they would be spared the pain of announcing the
catastrophe. Anderson knew. His eyes were red. He looked tired. Thoughts
of the island and fears that harm might spring there during his absence
upon those he loved had clearly held him awake last night. Miller and
Morgan hurried to meet him. They pressed his hand. “You needn’t bother,”
Anderson said in a colourless voice. “I’ve heard everything. It’s all
they’re talking about in Sandport. The boy who rowed me across the river
couldn’t think of anything else. It’s horrible—and Molly here alone,
unless one of you stayed.” “I was with her.” Miller answered. “I thought
you would be. I was afraid. I shouldn’t have gone. I didn’t want to go.
And that one night—the only time I’ve been away—it had to strike.” He
paused. He looked across the water which no longer sparkled. “Thank God
it wasn’t Molly,” he said softly, “or you, or Morgan. You know it

might, have been—very easily. “ “Mr. Miller and I are pretty capable of
taking care of ourselves, and of Mrs. Anderson, too,” Morgan put in with
an attempt at a laugh. The laugh, however, held no note of conviction,
and Miller noticed that Anderson’s words had diminished a little the
man’s ordinarily ruddy colour. He did not wonder at this, for he, too,
had reacted uncomfortably to the singsong quality of Anderson’s voice,
to its unquestioning assurance. Nevertheless he nodded in support of
Morgan’s reply. No other answer occurred to him. Anderson straightened
his shoulders. “I must go to Molly,” he said. “I scarcely dare think
what she’s suffered.” He led the way to the house. When they reached the
steps Morgan sat down, but Miller, after a moment’s hesitation, followed
Anderson into the hall. He did not care to force himself at such a
moment on his friend, yet he had said nothing comforting, nothing
strengthening. His own temporary weakness reminded him how much comfort
and strength Anderson needed. The character of night had already invaded
the hall of the coquina house. Miller spoke with an effort. “Morgan and
I have been talking things over,” he said. “We’ve decided we can t
afford to let imagination run away with us. We’ve gone over the—the
accident pretty thoroughly. There’s really nothing to stimulate
imagination there.” Anderson turned and stared at him questioningly.
“It’s horrible,” Miller went on. “You know how I feel for you and Molly,
but there’s nothing out of the way—a simple accident. All those snakes!
It might have been expected.” “Yes,” Anderson said bitterly, “it might
have been expected. The worst of it is, it was. I expected it. So did
Jake. It’s been in the air. It’s the feeling of the place. In the air,
Jim! We’d had our warning.” “Don’t tell me, Andy, you seriously suspect
any connection between the fancies

you’ve had here and this accident.” “I do tell you that,” Anderson said
fiercely. “As I’ve said all along, it’s the feeling of the place. And
you call them fancies! Prove it. That’s what we’re begging of you, Jim.”
“Certainly I’ll prove it,” Miller said. “The bite of a poisonous snake
needs no proof. What can be mysterious in that?” But, as if in answer to
his question, the marks he had noticed on Jake’s wrists came back to his
mind. “As a matter of fact,” he said, “some abrasions I thought I
detected on Jake’s wrists offer the only mystery to me.” “What do you
mean? What kind of abrasions?” Anderson asked indifferently. “I can’t
describe them very well. When I first noticed them it was nearly dark.
They were not pronounced. Then this morning they had practically
disappeared.” Anderson grew rigid. “Listen!” he said softly. There was a
stealthy movement at the head of the stairs. For an instant Miller
questioned if it was one of the manifestations of the coquina house.
Then he remembered how long Molly had waited, how impatient she must
have grown. “It’s Molly,” he whispered. Molly’s voice came to them.
Anderson relaxed; “Thank heavens you’re home. Is that Jim with you?”
“Yes,” Anderson said. “I’m coming up, Molly, right away.” They heard her
sigh as she went back to her room. Miller reverted to the puzzle of
Jake’s wrists. “Have you,” he asked Anderson, “ever seen that coroner at
Sandport?”

Anderson started. Miller knew the man’s mind had failed to return to
the phase he had described. “What, Jim! Oh! The coroner. Of course he
came here.” “Stop listening,” Miller said. “It was only Molly before.”
“But it’s already quite dark in here,” Anderson answered. “Soon it will
be night. I’m sorry, Jim. What were you saying? You asked something
about the coroner.” “Yes. I didn’t like the fellow’s looks or actions. I
asked you if you’d ever seen him.” “This afternoon,” Anderson replied.
“At the wharf in Sandport—a long, slim man. He spoke to me. He said he
was the coroner.” “What else did he say!” The recollection of the
interview appeared to stimulate Anderson. His vague air of a victim
facing an irresistible fatality left him. He ceased listening. For the
first time since he had entered the clearing, crushed by the news of
Jake’s death, his voice was colourful, expressive. “He’s a fool—a
pompous, cowardly fool. He warned me we had to bury Jake before night It
was pretty brutal, coming on top of what I’d just heard. I lost my
temper—asked him, since he was so particular, why he didn’t run over and
see to it himself. Jim, the man turned white. He said there was nothing
could haul him back to the island that late in the day—might be dark
before he could get across the river again. But he threatened trouble if
it wasn’t done. Pompous and a coward—like all these natives, except that
unholy fisherman!” “Pompous and a coward!” Miller repeated thoughtfully.
“I guess you’re right. I couldn’t interest him in the wrists, and it
made me wonder, but I guess you’re right. He was only afraid and in a
hurry to get away. Probably that was all. Anyway, stop trying, Andy, to
pin. a physical fact to an unhealthy fancy. The spirits didn’t get
Jake.” Anderson went up stairs, shaking his head. He came down very soon
with Molly. “I can’t thank you for what you did last night,” Anderson
said. “Why—why did I

have to be away!” “You couldn’t have done a great deal of good,
Andy—except taking care of Molly. There was nothing else any of us could
do.” “Taking care of Jake in that piece of woods!” Anderson whispered.
“0h, that was a good deal, Jim—a good deal.” They went outside. There
was no longer any excuse for delay. The limit of time appointed by the
coroner was at hand. It would soon be dark. Molly whispered something to
Anderson who shook his head. “I haven’t the courage,” he said. She
turned to Miller, holding out a pocket prayerbook. “There’s no
clergyman,” she explained simply. “It’s too brutal without something.”
Miller cleared his throat. “I’m scarcely fit, but if no one else will—”
She sighed. She looked at Morgan. She held the book out to him,
tentatively, appealingly. Morgan stepped forward. He took the book,
opened it, and fumbled with the pages until he had found the place. “If
it will make you feel better,” he said in a low voice. “Oh, thank you,”
she whispered. Morgan walked to the grave over which the gnarled
branches of two stunted oak trees drooped. The others gathered near him.
The sun was about to set. The coquina house threw a heavy shadow over
the little company and across the freshly turned earth and the yawning,
expectant pit. As Morgan commenced to read the sonorous and memorable
words the sun disappeared and dusk entered the island greedily.

Miller, who was standing next to Morgan let Ms eyes wander about the
gloomy setting for this task which had involved them so unexpectedly.
All at once his eyes became stationary. They had shown him something
moving on the other side of the clearing, just within the entrance of
the path to the shore. It was something white. In this obscure
atmosphere it seemed almost immateriaL Yet he saw it move almost wholly
hidden by the trees. For the moment Miller’s mind was swept from the
service which Morgan was reading slowly, almost inaudibly now, for it
came to him that the half-seen thing in white, flitting among the trees
was the elfin girl. The reading stopped abruptly. Miller glanced at
Morgan. The hand with the prayerbook had dropped. An expression of pain
had driven the passive sorrow from Morgan’s face as he, too, stared
across the murky clearing. At last his eyes went back to the book, and
he resumed his reading, but his voice was lower than before and it
trembled. Miller gazed at the forest again. He started. The girl was
still there, but she appeared to be off the path and moving through the
underbrush which he would have sworn was impenetrable. He told himself
that some turn of the path or the failing light created this illusion.
In order to convince himself he had to recall the morning on the beach
when he had felt the soft flesh of her arms yield beneath his grasp.
When he looked again she was gone.

Chapter X THE GRIM FISHERMEN Afterwards they gathered in the
living-room of the coquina house for a moment. Morgan, before leaving,
urged Molly and Anderson to return to the plantation with him at least
for a few days. They were grateful, but they preferred for the present
to remain alone where they were. “We have to get our bearings again,”
Anderson explained. So Morgan left. “At any rate I’ll stay with you
tonight.” Miller suggested. “It’s better not,” Anderson answered. “Molly
and I must fight things out.” “That’s what Jim said last night,” Molly
said. “I thought it would be impossible then. “ “It’s the turning
point,” Anderson went on. “If we can’t rise above this thing we’re
beaten. I—I think we can fight this better alone, so for a day or two,
Jim— There’s no use interfering with your plan of campaign.” Miller
nodded. Anderson followed him to the clearing. “In a day or two,” he
said as he pressed Miller’s hand, “I hope we’ll be normal again—as
nearly normal as we can be after this. At least I think you’ll find us
livable, and we can talk to some purpose. Good night” “Hail me if you
want me,” Miller said. “I’ll look in for just a minute tomorrow
afternoon to make sure you’re all right.” He hurried to the shore and
called for Tony. It was good to get back to the Bart again and to his
lonely meal in her familiar and comfortable cabin. But he found changes
on the Dart, too. Tony’s face was paler than ever, and his eyes appeared
larger and wider. More than Anderson he

had the air of facing an elusive but unavoidable fate. Curiously, this
complete surrender of the native to abject fear cheered Miller. He found
it possible to laugh. “Forget the spooks and avoid the snakes, Tony, and
you’ll be all right,” he said. Tony turned away unconvinced. Miller
himself, when he had gone to bed and lay listening to the whispers of
the tide, recalled those other whispers he had fancied in the forest
last night, recalled also the whispered conviction of Jake that death
was waiting on the island for them. At last he slept, and the next
morning was so brilliant it was impossible not to respond to it. He
scanned the dunes anxiously for the return of the girl who had become
for him the real and peremptory mystery of the island. There was no
sign. So in the middle of the afternoon he yielded to his overpowering
curiosity and directed Tony to row him ashore. They landed at the same
point, a little below the fisherman’s anchorage. “I probably shan’t be
very long,” he said. “It’s scarcely worth while for you to row back.”
Tony’s face clouded. He pushed away and lay on his oars off shore.
Miller went to the coquina house as he had agreed with Anderson. He had
intended to remain for only a few moments, but continually they urged
him to stay a little longer. The night and the morning had been more
difficult than they had anticipated, so he remained with them until,
glancing at his watch, he was surprised to find it past five o’clock.
“I’m going over to Morgan,” he said, “and tomorrow I’m coming here to
spend the night if you will have me. I don’t see any use in waiting
longer. That broad view I was going to get from the Dart has failed to
develop. Everything that has happened has been at close range.” “It’s at
close range here, Jim,” Anderson said. “At close range, yet impossibly
far. Come ahead.” Miller found Tony still resting on his oars off shore.
He beckoned. Tony, evidently relieved at seeing him again, rowed quickly
in.

“I’m going to walk to the plantation, Tony. It may be nearly dark
before I get back. Perhaps your temperament would suffer less if you
came with me.” Tony shook his head. “Not in that woods again!”
“Nonsense, Tony. I must. Will you come with me? Or maybe you’d rather
rout out that fisherman for company.” He glanced at the filthy tub.
During the moment he had had his l)ack turned the fisherman had come on
deck. Miller saw him for the first time. He stood by the rail, outlined
against the sky and the yellow dunes. Boots, soiled jeans, and a blue
shirt, open at the throat, clothed his great figure. Miller received an
impression of steadfast, unreasoning power. For a moment forgetful of
Anderson’s experience, he put his hand to his mouth and shouted.
“Hal-loo over there!” The figure remained motionless. The eyes, fixed on
the shore line, did not waver. “Hal-loo!” Miller called again. And again
he shouted. He turned angrily to Tony. “I’ve half a mind to row out and
open his ears. What do you make of him?” Tony gave it up. “It’s
Captain’s Island,” he said. “Tomorrow,” Miller decided, “we’ll try to
find out what it is. Now are you coming with me, or do you prefer the
neighbourhood of that sphinx?” Tony glanced longingly at the remote
Dart. “No,” Miller said. “I won’t be gone long enough to make it worth
while. If you went back to the boat it would be a nuisance to get you.
Better come with me.” He turned inland. Tony, after a moment’s troubled
hesitation, followed quickly. Before entering the forest Miller looked
back. The grim figure had not moved. The eyes were still fixed. Miller
almost doubted if the man had seen them.

Chapter XI THE CIRCLE AND THE WRISTS AGAIN MILLER followed the narrow
path among the shadows—that tunnel-like path whose first invasion had
led to the discovery of Jake’s body. He walked rapidly, because in spite
of himself he was anxious to get through. Tony followed at his heels,
breathing gaspingly. It was all familiar enough until they came to the
disturbed undergrowth where Jake had been found. Miller glanced at the
trampled palmettos with a sense of discomfort and increased his pace a
little. He began to look anxiously for the first sign of the plantation.
The character of the path did not alter until they saw that first
outpost—the jagged, grey wall of a collapsed building. After a few steps
there were more of these cheerless ruins, then the outlines of one or
two other structures in better preservation. Miller guessed that they
were the remains of the old slave quarters. The path turned between two
of the walls into a long avenue, lined with live oaks, which led to the
rear of the plantation house. Miller stepped through, and, breathing
more freely, looked around him. The crumbling quarters curved to either
side in -a wide semicircle whose ends had been swallowed by the hungry
forest. Only two or three of the buildings, which had probably been
repaired, possessed roofs. Miller felt the romantic call of eighty
years. He wanted to stop and examine these significant survivals of a
unique community—these prisons—these torture chambers, if half that had
been handed down about Noyer was true. But he resisted. It would soon be
dark. As it was his visit must be hurried. So he told Tony to wait for
him in the avenue. “Perhaps you’ll find one of the servants to chat
with,” he said. But, as he hurried down the avenue and around the house
to the pillared verandah, he saw no servants himself. Morgan opened the
door, greeting him warmly. He led him into a comfortable library which
occupied the entire left

hand wing. High cases with ancient, black-bound volumes circled the
room. Miller glanced at them interestedly. “Look as though they might
have been the original library collected by Noyer,” he said. “I dare say
they are,” Morgan answered. “It’s all old before the war stuff— mostly
government reports, dry and valueless. One of my brothers, who is
something of a book worm, has run through them. He advised selling the
lot by the bale for kindling. By the way I hope you’ll stay long enough
to meet my brothers. They’ve immolated themselves once or twice by
leaving real winter resorts to visit me. I hope they’ll be here over
this coming Sunday on their way North. You might enjoy them.” He rang a
bell. In a few minutes a man servant entered, bearing a tray with cigars
and bottles. Morgan made a good deal of a ceremony of the refreshments.
Half an hour or more had passed before he arose to conduct his guest
through the house. During that time, as though by mutual consent,
neither he nor Miller had mentioned Jake. Evidently everyone on the
island agreed with Miller that it was essential the tragedy should not
be brooded upon by minds already sufficiently troubled. Miller found the
interior of the plantation house more fascinating than that first view
had prophesied. The rooms were low-ceilinged but large. The wood work
was rough-hewn. Old-fashioned furniture cluttered the floors. The
clothing of the two men was all that brought the mind back from the days
of Noyer to the present. At last Morgan led Miller up a steep ladder to
the cupola he had noticed from the water. Here, in the small, square,
unfinished room, Morgan pointed out rusty iron staples driven into the
oak beams. Depending from them were wrist and leg irons. Overhead was a
row of empty hooks. “For thongs and lashes,” Morgan explained. “It seems
Noyer was a disciplinarian. This cheerful apartment was designed for the
house servants. In one of the barns there is a far more elaborate
outfit, evidently for the field hands.”

“Romantic?” Miller said. “Scarcely pleasant, but by Jove, the whole
place is romantic.” “And what else you’ve had a chance to see,” Morgan
answered quietly. “As I’ve told you, I pride myself on my resistance,
but the island does seem to give out an air. How would you describe
it?—Baneful! You’ve seen how superstition fattens on it. That shouldn’t
be, but I’m fighting it all the time, not only with my servants. My
brothers even, when they’re here.” The proper moment had come. Miller
caught his breath and plunged boldly. “And your daughter? Is she
superstitious?” Morgan turned. It was growing dark even in this high
room. Miller could not read the other’s face—could not be sure it
confessed any emotion stronger than surprise. Morgan spoke with a little
difficulty. His voice was hard. “My daughter! How have you—What do you
know of her?” Miller felt himself placed in the wrong. He was conscious
of the hot blood in his cheeks. After all, perhaps, he had been
tactless, for Anderson had told him that the girl troubled her father,
and he had seen sufficient evidence of that himself. “The Andersons,” he
said, “mentioned that you had a daughter.” His choice lay between that
and an avowal of his encounter with the girl. He did not care to
surrender that memory or her secret. At the moment he found he couldn’t.
Morgan started down the ladder. “My daughter,” he said coldly, “is not
to be judged ordinarily. She is—peculiar. She keeps a good deal to
herself.” They descended to the library in silence. Miller resented the
constraint that had arisen between them at the mention of this girl in
whom he felt so strong an interest. When he took his leave, however,
Morgan resumed his cordial tone.

“It’s pretty dark,” he said. “I hadn’t realised it was so late. You
have had experience of that path. Perhaps you wouldn’t find it pleasant
walking, particularly after your vigil of the other night. Let me run
you out in my launch.” Miller laughed a little. “No. I suppose I should
be glad it’s dark, so I can go through those woods grinning at the
feeling with which they oppressed me the other night. But of course
that’s nonsense. The path’s really all right. Besides my man is waiting
for me around the house, and we have the dingy on the shore. I can’t
inconvenience you and myself for atmosphere.” Morgan laughed back at
him. “After all that’s the talk. But mind you don’t fancy things in the
dark. I want you to come again.” “When you’ve lunched or dined on the
Dart.” Miller answered. “Gladly. How about a lantern?” “There’s one in
the dingy. I think I can manage that far.” He started around the house.
“Good night,” Morgan called after him. It was really night in the
avenue. Miller walked cautiously to avoid stumbling. He was disappointed
more than he would have thought possible. Primarily he had come to see
the girl. She had not appeared. He had misread the fancied obedience in
her eyes. He paused and lighted his pipe. After the match expired it was
darker than before. He had not realised it was so late. He smiled at the
thought of Tony’s terror of the darkness in this place. But where was
the man! A slight uneasiness drove the smile away. He called : “Tony!”

He waited, listening. The night was very still. His uneasiness
increased. Perhaps, though, the native had gone back to the dingy. Yet,
Miller felt, he would not have taken that path at dusk alone without
some irresistible reason. He went on. He knew he must be near the end of
the avenue, that those dark masses directly ahead were the ruined slave
quarters. He wondered why the night was so still. There should be
insects, birds, animals, but he heard nothing save the slight scuffling
of his feet among dead leaves. Abruptly he stopped. Miller was not
easily startled, yet now his throat tightened. Something was moving
ahead—a blacker shadow in the black shadow of a crumbling wall. It
stepped out towards him. “Who’s there?” he muttered. But now he guessed,
and he was exultant. She came to him quickly. Her hand was on his arm.
He heard her heavy breathing. The girl was frightened. He fought back a
quick impulse to put his arms around her, to draw her close. He knew it
was unjustifiable. For a moment it was incomprehensible to him. He
strangled it. “I told myself you would see me,” he said. “I asked you to
see me.” “I have obeyed.” She caught her breath. “Listen—” “What is your
name?” he asked. “This time you will tell me your name.” “Listen!” she
began again. “Won’t you tell me your name?” She burst out impatiently:
“I have no name for you.”

She reached up. She pulled at the lapel of his coat. “Listen to me—”
Again, as on the beach, a sense of social isolation set him beyond the
standards he knew. The logic of reason no longer dovetailed. The impulse
grew too strong. His arms were around her. His lips tried to find hers.
But he could not find her lips at first. She spoke hurriedly with an odd
catch in her voice. “This is madness. You cannot do that.” “But I can,”
he said defiantly. He drew her head back. He kissed her mouth. Without
warning she relaxed. “You have taken too much,” she said in a hard
voice. “Now go.” “Yes,” he answered, “I shall go, but tomorrow on the
beach—” He released her and walked towards the ruins. He was aware of no
shame. Instead a steely triumph filled his heart. He was for the moment
a man strange to himself. He had reached the edge of the underbrush when
she caught him and grasped his arm. She was trembling. “No. Even now you
must not go that way. “ “Why?” “Listen! The night is very still.” “Yes.
Why have I done this! Is it love?” “Don’t say that. You must not go this
way. Come back.” “I shall go this way.” Her voice rose.

“Not tonight. The woods are not safe tonight.” “Not safe?” She
whispered : “The throats of the snakes—their fangs are out.” “Wh-what do
you mean?” “I know,” she cried. “You shall not go this way tonight?”
Suddenly he stiffened. A choked and horrible cry arose from the path
ahead of them—the cry of a man in agony. It seemed to break into a
thousand sounds and fill the woods. She shrank back. Then she recovered
and tried to catch at his arm. But he realised. He threw off her hand
and plunged blindly down the path. He shouted : “Tony!” He heard her
faintly. “Come back! Come back!” But he stumbled on in the direction of
the cry. He could see nothing. He kept to the path by instinct, running,
thrusting aside the branches and fronds that reached out to hold him
back. At last he heard Tony’s gasping breath. The man was just ahead. He
was running, too, but slowly, heavily, as one who struggles from the
paralysing bonds of fear. “Tony! It was you! What—” The man staggered
forward. Miller took his arm and hurried him. “Were you—? Were you—?”
But he scarcely dared finish the question. Perhaps Jake at first had
run, too. Perhaps Tony, as he ran, was aware of the pain of two tiny
punctures, of the slow mounting of the poison, of the imminence of death
on the island he had feared. The weight of his responsibility in urging
the man here against his will crushed

Miller. He forced the question out. “Tony! Tony! Were you struck?” They
swayed from the forest to the beach. Far away the riding light of the
Bart burned steadily. The peaceful water mirrored the stars. Miller
swung Tony around. “That place is full of snakes,” he said thickly.
“Tell me—” He shook the man. “Tell me! Tell me!” Tony did not answer.
Miller had a cold fear that he could not. He tightened his grasp. “What
happened? Pull yourself together, man!” It was a long time before Tony
spoke. When he did finally, the words came with difficulty, disjointed,
almost unintelligible. “The avenue—something moved. It was
dark—frightened—in the path—I got off—” “Yes. Yes.” “I don’t know. I
don’t know.” “What happened in the path!” “Don’t know. I couldn’t go
on.” The man’s voice rose to a cry. “I couldn’t move —” “Nothing touched
you? Nothing held you?” “No. I was alone, and I couldn’t move—couldn’t
see. But I could hear. I heard the rattle.” He paused, gasping for
breath. “I heard it crawling—crawling. It rattled twice.”

“But you screamed. How—” “I don’t know. It hurt, but I shouted. I heard
you coming. I could move. I ran.” Miller let him go. He walked to the
boat and lighted the lantern, trying to tell himself it was stark fear
that had held the man captive. Tony pushed off, stepped in, and took the
oars. He rowed unevenly. The boat made slow progress. Miller raised the
lantern to examine the native’s face. But his eyes did not reach the
face. They were arrested by the knotted hands on the oars. He was
unwilling to credit what he saw there. The manner of Jake’s death on
that same path came back and chilled him. For there were abrasions on
Tony’s wrists, too, and the man could not tell how they had come there.
He was sure of only this :—no one had touched him. He dropped the oars.
“I can’t row, Mr. Miller. My wrists hurt.” He thrust his wrists in the
salt water. He carried them to his face. He pressed them against his
eyes. All at once he commenced to sob, painfully, grossly. Lowering the
lantern. Miller waited for this shocking breakdown to rack itself out.
He could not doubt what Tony’s wrists had shown him. For the first time
he surrendered to a sense of insufficiency and, for the moment, of utter
helplessness.

Chapter XII THE CONQUERING INFLUENCE When they reached the Dart Miller
lighted the saloon lamp himself. Sitting on a locker, he directed Tony
to come to him and to place his hands, palms up, on the polished
mahogany table. Then he leaned forward to examine the wrists more
carefully. Immediately he started back with an exclamation. The
abrasions were disappearing. Even in this brilliant light he had had to
look closely to detect that which fifteen minutes back had struck him
like a blow in the uncertain glimmer of a lantern. He questioned Tony.
He went over the entire experience once more, but Tony could tell him
nothing further. It was all vague in his mind. The thing that was
clearest, that persisted, whose memory still terrified, was the fact
that he had stood in the darkness, off the path, unable to move, held
apparently by an immaterial but plenary force, while the snake had
approached. When Miller had finished Tony bent his head. “Now,” he asked
in that thick voice which always gave the impression of a thing disused,
“can’t we go from Captain’s Island?” Miller thought for a moment,
knowing he would stay, yet striving to be honest with himself. He
admitted that he craved cheerful surroundings and experiences ranging
within his own comprehension. He did not deny that a feeling of
inadequacy to combat the atmosphere of Captain’s Island had grown, had
tonight assumed disconcerting proportions. But he was aware of no
bending of his will. He understood more clearly than ever why Anderson
and Molly had stayed on at the coquina house in the face of nervous and
physical breakdown. Any other course would have confessed their
weakness, would have earned his contempt. He found himself looking
forward impatiently to tomorrow night which he would spend there,
perhaps in the room where Noyer had committed the murder on which so
much of the island’s superstition was based. In other words he wanted to
bring matters to a focus in order to persuade Molly, Anderson, Tony, and
himself that they were the victims of nerves, or of some subtle material
fact to which at present no clue appeared. For he would not harbour the
possibility of the supernatural’s convincing him at the end.

Underneath this healthy, combative instinct, moreover, lay a stronger
force which held him to the place—one whose birth and growth and
expression troubled him scarcely less than the graver problem. When,
yielding incredibly to his impulse, he had held the girl, according to
his will and against hers, in his arms; when, her resistance swept
aside, he had placed his lips on her elfin ones, he had accepted from
Captain’s Island a personal problem on whose solution, he realised, his
happiness depended precariously. Molly and the others eliminated, he
could not leave the inlet now. So he faced Tony with a certain pity,
because he understood the man’s devotion. “No, Tony, we can not go from
Captain’s Island yet. I shall stay until all the cards are on the
table,” Under his breath Tony muttered one word : “Death!” “What’s
that?” Miller demanded sharply. “Can’t fight what you can’t see.
Captain’s Island’s full of it. It’s always meant death. The other
night—” “Your stories!” Miller said. “All right, Tony. After your
experience this evening on top of Jake’s death I can’t keep you. I can’t
expect to convince you by laughing at your stories again. In the morning
you can go to Sandport, and, understand, I don’t blame you. We part
amicably.” Tony opened his arms in a gesture of despair. He went back to
the kitchen. “That means, Tony?” Miller called. An angry rattling of
pans came to him. But he knew what it meant. If they got through here
with whole skins he would take the fellow North with him. He slept very
little that night. The wearier his brain grew with the puzzle the wider
awake it held him. He placed the mystery in the scales with logic and
commonsense, but the scales would not balance. The few facts that
presented themselves only increased the fantasy of the unknown. From the
cases of Jake and Tony an alliance appeared to exist between the
island’s two radical attributes —its commonly accepted supernatural
atmosphere and its poisonous snakes.

Both of these unaccountable adventures, one of which had ended fatally,
had occurred in the same place—that piece of forest between the shore of
the inlet and the ruins. What was the connection between the violent and
fatal force that lurked there and the wearing manifestations of the
coquina house, and, for that matter, with the oppressive air one
breathed after dark at Morgan’s—even here on the Dart? When, for relief
from these questions to which no answer would come, he turned to his own
problem, the girl, he only found more to trouble, more to mystify. From
the first her presence had led him to answer to unexpected and, he felt,
inexplicable impulses. And tonight she had come to him with a veiled
warning that the piece of woods was unsafe. Had she actually known
anything, or was her foreknowledge psychic? For she had given him an
impression that that word would fit her better than any he knew. One
fact lingered in his memory with triumphant clearness. He did not regret
the question he had asked in the black shadows of the ruins. He was
eager for the dawn to give him an opportunity to answer it in her
presence. When the dawn came, however, it did not bring its usual
release from the fancies of the night. He rose, tired, depressed,
irritable. His plunge in the swift waters of the inlet failed to arouse
him. As he stood on deck afterwards, scanning the tangled shore of the
island distastefully, almost with hatred, that significant sentence
Molly had uttered so confidently down there in the saloon came back to
him. “By and by even the sweetest days will be coloured for you like
that.” He swung about impatiently. His eyes searched the dunes which
were touched with a delicate mauve by the dawn. He felt that the girl
would come this morning. Uncomformable as she was, what had happened
last night would trouble her, would bring her to the sands. Moreover, he
had told her to come, he remembered, and at the time had not questioned
her obedience. His restlessness increased until he rowed to the dunes.
He wandered among them while his certainty fell to a hope, and his hope
began to dwindle. At last he saw her far up the curving beach. She
walked slowly. Her head was bowed. She wore a black gown which made her
figure seem very slender, rather pitiful.

He hurried to meet her, but, instead of the exultation and the steely
triumph of last night, he experienced a growth of his depression until
it became sorrow. He wondered if this could be accounted for by her
black dress and her downcast eyes. He took her hand, which she permitted
to rest passively in his, and led her to the first dune. There for some
moments they sat in silence, their backs against the sand, gazing out to
sea where the sun rose in an opal mist. When he spoke his voice was
lifeless. “There is so much to say—so much to ask. I am glad you have
come.” She did not meet his eyes. “You shall not ask me to come again.”
“Yes,” he answered,” because—it is very curious. You would not tell me
your first name. I’ve asked you. I do not know that, but I know I love
you.” “Hush!” she whispered. “You must not say that.” “Even,” he asked,
“if you—” Now she looked into his eyes. “Not even then.” “Yet you have
come as I asked.” “To tell you that.” “You have told me, and it alters
nothing. There is something here—something I can’t explain, but it shall
not intervene. In the end it shall be as I wish.” “Don’t say those
things—not even you.” He looked at her dully. Where had his courage and
his will of the other morning, of last night, fled? Impatient with
himself he burst out : “What is all this mystery?”

She was a little surprised. “Mystery?” “To begin with, about you?” Her
lips tightened. “There is no mystery about me that you haven’t made
yourself. Last evening, by the ruined quarters you kissed me against my
will.” “It was brutal,” he said, “but I am glad, for it made me know
that I love you. At least it explains nothing. Yes, there is
mystery—mystery about you—” He turned and for the second time shook his
fist towards Captain’s Island. “And mystery there. Perhaps you can
lighten it, for it shall be lightened. Last night there was a loathsome,
death-dealing puzzle on that island, in that piece of forest. I don’t
understand it. Tony, who was caught in its mazes, doesn’t either.”
“Yes,” she said, “that piece of woods is often unsafe. If I can help it
I shall not go there again, nor must you.” “You see?” he cried. ” There
is mystery, and you must tell me what you know of it.” “I? Nothing.”
“Nothing! Then why do you say it is dangerous! Why did you warn me last
night! Why did you call me back! Why did you say that about the
snakes—that their fangs were out!” “Because I knew the path wasn’t safe
last night.” “And how—how did you know!” She seemed to be trying to find
words that would satisfy him. At last she shook her head, smiling
wistfully. “It is hard to tell you that. I only felt. Since I have been
on the island I have felt these things about it. I can’t tell you how. I
wish I could. I—it’s only that while I

waited for you in the ruins it came to me that the forest was full of
snakes and— and horrors, and that you must not go.” “That explains
nothing,” he said, disappointed. She turned away. “I am sorry. You will
think I am—queer.” “Queer!” he repeated. “You want me to believe there
is a bond between you and those horrors.” “I did not say that.” “If that
is all you can tell me it is absurd.” “It is all I can tell you.”
“Remember,” he urged, “I love you, and, oh, my dear, you, I think—” She
put her hand in his. He stared at the quick moisture in her eyes. “I
have never known love,” she said, “but now, perhaps, you have made me
feel that. We must never speak of it again. We must never see each other
again.” He drew her to him. “Never!” he mocked. “You can say that now.
There’s one mystery I can dissipate. I will speak to your father. I will
tell him I love you.” Pushing him back, she sprang to her feet. “No. You
will promise me not to do that.” “Why? It is so natural. Can there be
nothing normal here?” “I have troubled him enough,” she said. “He is
sweet and kind, and it would trouble him if you should speak of me.”
“Why does he dislike one to speak of you?” Miller asked. “Why are you
kept so much to yourself!”

“I am not kept,” she answered. “I keep myself apart. People make me
unhappy. Why must you make me unhappy, too! Why do you torture me with
questions I don’t know how to answer, that I can’t answer! I have told
you what I could. Don’t ask any more.” “I want to ask you one thing. Did
your father come here because of you?” “No, but he has stayed because of
me.” “If you refuse to tell me why,” he said, “I shall go to him. I
shall ask him, no matter whom it troubles.” “You will end by hating me,”
she answered, “yet I have done nothing wrong. Perhaps it is better,
although—” She hesitated. “He could tell you about me no more than I
have told you, than you have seen yourself; and I could never come here
again in the early morning,” “But you said—Then you will come after
all?” “When you have gone from Captain’s Island.” she answered. He rose
and grasped her hands. “Understand, I shall not leave until I have
solved the puzzle of that dangerous forest, of the coquina house—until I
can walk the whole ghastly island without the uncertainty and fear of
the unknown. Then I shall go, and I shall take you with me.” “No, no,”
she said harshly, “or, perhaps, you will never leave Captain’s Island. I
know it. You—even you can’t do that. I have told you that I feel these
things. It is not safe to fight.” “I shall stay.” She strove for some
form of persuasion. “If my father should leave? He has thought of it. He
does not like it. If he should

take me away would you give it up and leave with us?” He smiled “In
that case I think pride would go by the board.” “Then—” she began, and
stopped. The chugging of a gasoline engine reached them from the inlet.
“It is he,” she said. “He may go to your boat, for I know he likes you.
Hurry back. Don’t tell him you have seen me. No one must see me here.”
“Except me, and you will come to me here again?” he bargained. The
exhaust of the engine was nearer. She looked wildly around her. Swiftly
she stooped and touched her lips to his hand, then she turned and ran up
the beach, glancing back at him.

Chapter XIII THE BIVOUAC IN THE MARSHES MILLER walked across the dunes,
elated at first by the fugitive caress, but after a moment his
depression returned, heavier than before. He had hoped the interview
would lead to some solution of Tony’s adventure, to the unveiling of the
entire affair. Yet all it had brought him on that side was the girl’s
avowal that she possessed an instinct which warned her when the lurking
danger gathered itself menacingly. He stepped into the dingy and pushed
off. Before he had reached the boat Morgan came opposite him. “Want to
fish? ” Morgan called. “I’m going to try my luck at the lower end of the
inlet.” “Haven’t breakfasted,” Miller answered, “Bring your boat over.”
Morgan stopped his engine, pulled at the tiller, and drifted close.
Miller studied him reflectively. Why was it that the pleasant little man
surrounded his daughter with such cold reserve? Some unhappy family
chapter, perhaps? That would also explain her repeated suggestions that
nothing could come of their love. Or was the cause to be traced wholly
to the girl herself? At any rate this one subject, as the constraint in
the cupola yesterday reminded him, altered Morgan’s genial personality
completely. Certainly he was good-humoured enough now. “I see you got
back all right last evening. Didn’t see any women in white?” “That’s
what I wished to speak to you about,” Miller answered. “No orthodox
ghosts, but something more puzzling.” Morgan was curious. He asked
meaningly: “In that piece of woods?” Miller nodded, and told him of
Tony’s experience. As he spoke the good humour faded from Morgan’s face.
He listened dejectedly.

“What next?” he exclaimed when Miller had finished. “Thank heavens this
wasn’t another coroner’s case. Who’ll be the third? See here. Miller, I
was really anxious to run you out in my launch last night. I didn’t
press the point, because I didn’t want to appear ridiculous. But I don’t
feel right about that piece of woods. We’ve had warning enough now. Even
before anything happened, as I told you, the Andersons and I preferred
to walk it by day. Now here’s the cat bitten there, and Jake, and this
unaccountable affair of last night. There’s no answer. What in the name
of heaven is wrong?” “I am going to find out what’s wrong,” Miller
answered grimly. “I am going to satisfy myself about that piece of woods
before I get through with it.” “You’re young. Frankly, I’m afraid of
it,” Morgan answered. He sighed. “If this sort of thing keeps up I
suppose sooner or later I’ll have to get out. And the plantation seemed
just what we wanted. It’s lonely enough now. Why don’t you come over and
spend the night tonight? We can have a game of chess, and I’ll promise
to get you to bed early.” “I’m sorry,” Miller said. “The Andersons have
asked me to have dinner and stay with them. Another time.” “I wish you
would,” Morgan urged. He laughed uncomfortably. “Here I am crying for
company! Well, one can’t always analyse. There is just an unpleasant
feeling about the house after dark.” He started his engine and prepared
to swing off. “Sorry you won’t try your luck with the fishes.” Miller
tried with poor success to make his voice derisive. “Wraiths are much
more tempting game to-day.” “But scarcely as likely to rise to bait, I’m
afraid,” Morgan answered with a

frown. “Speaking of fish,” Miller went on, “reminds me I’ve yet to call
on that fisherman over there.” He turned and gazed at the low hulk,
again apparently abandoned. Morgan followed his glance. A troubled look
replaced his frown. “Funny business, that!” he muttered. “What’s he here
for, and where is he most of the time?” “I’d like to know,” Miller said.
“The other day you asked me not to judge any of you too harshly until
I’d been at the island a reasonable length of time myself. I’m almost
ashamed to suspect that my fitness for judgment at all is decidedly in
question. Anderson has spoken to me of a ridiculous fancy. He said that
fellow seemed no more real than the atmosphere of the island—in fact,
was symbolical of the whole thing.” “Ridiculous, of course,” Morgan
answered. “Yet I think I understand what Anderson meant” “I think I can
understand, too,” Miller said. “That’s why I no longer venture to
judge.” Morgan expressed Miller’s fancy of the other day. “That boat
looks like a wreck—a wreck on which somebody has died hard.” “I’ve
thought of that,” Miller replied, “but of course it’s all nonsense.
There’s nothing supernatural anywhere—least of all there. But, I must
confess, it startles me to have such thoughts at all; to feel, even
subconsciously, the impulse to harbor them. Besides, I’ve seen the man,”
“Yet, you know,” Morgan said, “he isn’t often to be seen; and, if
Anderson raised the question as to whether anybody had touched him, or
heard his voice, or caught him expressing an emotion—Well? What could I
say? What could you? You’ve had your eyes on him. That’s all. And how
often?” “Only once,” Miller answered, “yesterday when I was starting
through the woods to call on you.”

“I’ve been here a long time,” Morgan said, “yet I’ve seen him scarcely
more than you. I’ve called to him. So has Anderson.” Miller thrust his
hands in’ his pockets. “I hailed him yesterday. No answer. No move.”
“The few times I’ve had a chance to look at him,” Morgan said, “he’s
been like that.” “Anderson told me you’d been aboard.” “Yes,” Morgan
answered,” rather a foolish expedient to lay that mystery. It amounted
to nothing. If there had been anybody watching I’d have appeared a
fool.” “Why?” “I don’t know. The puzzle of that wreck, the absence of
the man, the lack of any sign of him—it all got on my nerves. I’m afraid
I lost my temper.” “One does sometimes experience here a helpless
feeling bordering on rage,” Miller agreed. “At any rate I’m going to
repeat your experiment this afternoon.” “You’re going to board him,
too?” “If he doesn’t answer when I hail. Maybe he will though. In spite
of what I’ve seen myself and all you and Anderson have told me, I can’t
conceive of his not either welcoming or resenting my presence in some
positive way.” “If he isn’t there at all?” Morgan asked. “No doubt about
his being there sometime. And where else, in heaven’s name, would he
be?” “Anyway, don’t take any chances,” Morgan warned. “I shan’t,” Miller
answered. “Besides, Tony will be with me. You see, Morgan, things have
come to a point where it’s difficult for me to remain inactive. Tony’s
affair last night has brought matters to a head, and I feel something
ought to be

done.” Morgan spread his hands. “I’ve said that for a long time, but
what to do!” Miller laughed. “Perhaps the fisherman can tell me. I’m
sorry to have kept you from your sport so long. Maybe the snappers will
be all the hungrier. Good luck.” Morgan swung away. As he chugged down
the inlet he waved his hand cheerily, but Miller saw that his face was
still troubled. Miller stared after him. The fisherman temporarily left
his mind, for Morgan’s receding back was a reproach. To be sure he had
practically promised the girl not to speak about her to her father, and
his reward had been that unexpected and singular caress. Yet, perhaps,
it would have been the wiser part to have fulfilled his threat and have
had the whole thing out with Morgan. In spite of the man’s attitude
yesterday Miller could have nerved himself to that course this morning.
And, after all, what could Morgan have said! Was an expression of
disapproval to be weighed against the possible advantages of such a
step? Beyond displeasure, such as he had exposed in the cupola, Miller
felt sure Morgan could have offered no obstacles to the interview. He
could have convinced the father of his right to demand a frank
discussion of the girl and of her apparent elusive alliance with the
atmosphere of Captain’s Island. Sooner or later that interview must take
place, unless, indeed, Miller’s boasts were shown to be quite empty and
the girl’s morbid prophecies were beyond all doubt accomplished. Miller
could not seriously forecast such a state of affairs. If he lived he
would marry the girl. Since the very mystery of Captain’s Island had
hurried him to that conviction, certainly he would not let its
manifestations intervene. As he stared after her father he wondered at
his determination. While his love had grown the puzzle of the girl’s
personality had, instead of diminishing, grown equally with it. She was
less tangible, more exceptional than she had been that morning on the
beach when the waves had played about her bare feet. “What was this girl
that he loved! If it were not for the memory of his blind folly and the
one quick caress she had offered of her own will, she would have seemed
scarcely more real than the mystery in which apparently she was
involved.

Had that caress held a meaning which he had not yet sounded? Had she
possibly intended it to convey to him some significant message? Morgan
had disappeared behind the sands at the lower end of the inlet. Miller
stirred, shaking his head. Inaction became more and more difficult.
There was nothing to draw him to the island until after luncheon, but it
occurred to him that he had not yet walked northward through the dunes.
It would give him something to do, although he expected nothing in that
direction except a glimpse of the marshes where Anderson had said the
wild oystermen lived and worked. “Tony!” he called. The native came up
the ladder and waited by the rail. “I’m afraid you heard all that Mr.
Morgan and I said.” Tony nodded. “I’m sorry,” Miller went on. “You
slipped my mind. Still it gives you something to which you can look
forward—our call on that fisherman after luncheon. We might not receive
a gracious welcome. I fancy, Tony, you wouldn’t mind fighting that
fellow if he turned nasty, in a way you could thoroughly understand.”
Tony’s grin was sickly. Miller sighed. “And he’d be too large for you
alone. I’ve never been much of a brawler, but, I don’t know, Tony, it
would be really diverting to fight something here you could get your
hands on.” Tony pointed to the end of the island around which they had
sailed the night of their arrival “I said—” he began. Miller raised his
hand. “Don’t begin to crow too soon. Don’t misunderstand me. I haven’t
said the things aren’t there, waiting for our hands, because they are if
only we can drag

them from under cover. They must be. If you ever persuaded me they
weren’t I’d apply for admittance at the first comfortable lunatic asylum
I could find. I’m no nearer believing in your ghosts than I was at
first.” Tony’s smile showed he was unconvinced. “At least don’t get the
jumps over what you heard,” Miller said. “I’m going to take the dingy
now and row to the dunes. I thought it might be pleasant to wander north
along the seashore for a few miles. Do you think I’ll meet any spirits
in that direction?” Tony’s face was impassive. “Good!” Miller laughed.
“The sands aren’t as spooky as the island or you’d warn me back.” He
lighted a cigar, descended to the dingy, and prepared to push off. “A
couple of hours at the most,” he called. Tony smiled again. “Breakfast
then?” he asked. Miller whistled, but he was shame-faced—a little
shocked. Breakfast was a meal he customarily awaited with impatience.
Tony, of course, had been busy with its preparations while Morgan and he
had talked. For the first time he became aware of the appetizing odour
of those preparations. He had completely forgotten breakfast. The fact
furnished a disquieting illustration of his state of mind. It warned him
that Captain’s Island was, as Molly had promised, increasing its
influence upon him. He took his cigar from his mouth. It was of large
size and heavy quality. Usually that brand served as the last ceremony
of his morning meal. He had lighted it absent-mindedly. Only now he
appreciated its unfamiliar and harsh taste. He threw the cigar in the
water with a quick gesture. As he stepped back to the deck of the Dart
his mind groped for an answer to Tony’s comprehending smile. “Foolish to
light that, for your bacon smells good, Tony. After all, I’ve plenty of

time.” He realised its inadequacy. The innuendo would fail with Tony
who had had so much experience of his master’s appetite. He went down
the ladder and settled himself on the tapestry cushions. As a matter of
fact he ate little, for his mind would not release the unpleasant
recollection of its slip. As he walked northward among the dunes
afterwards he was more than ever glad he was to spend the night at the
coquina house. Before, he had only been anxious to force the fight. Now,
to do so impressed him as a necessity. The dunes, when he had left the
familiar section near the Dart’s anchorage, lured him on for more than
two miles before they altered their character. He threaded his way among
the graceful, sparkling mounds, catching, now to the left, a glimpse of
the inlet, and, now to the right, the flash of the ocean. Even here he
walked carefully, watching the sand ahead of him. He didn’t care to take
any unnecessary chances with snakes. After a long time he scrambled up
the side of a high dune and looked around him. He had walked past the
curve of the inlet. The end of the island was more than a mile to the
south. Across the sands, the marshes, and the water it frowned at him
moodily. Even in this warm sunlight it looked forbidding. He recognised
a gleam of white among the trees for the plantation house. The girl was
back there long before this. He tried to trace her route to the dunes.
Probably she landed over there where the inlet curved and the marshes
and the sands were divided by a narrow stream. He slipped down the
shifting flank of the dune and turned towards the marshes. The mounds
became smaller and less frequent. Then he passed the last of them. He
found that the narrow stream which emptied in the inlet was near at
hand. Beyond it the marshes stretched away interminably—a green desert
with a few distant clumps of trees which cut into a cloudless sky.
Miller faced straight to the north. There, too, the prospect did not at
first vary. As he gazed, however, he thought there was a slight
difference. A straight black line against the sky, which he had taken
for a dead tree, might be the mast of a boat.

Keeping to the sand, he paralleled the course of the stream. Very soon
he became convinced that he did, indeed, see a mast ahead. The marsh
straggled now along his side of the stream. It forced him nearer the
dunes. As the mast grew sharper and larger and he could see the cords
stretched from it, he left the open altogether and sought the shelter of
the mounds. As he had approached unobserved the other morning towards
the girl on the beach, so now he crept closer to this boat, apparently
secreted among the marshes. He believed he was about to see one of those
camps of the oystermen. He remembered Anderson had quoted Bait as saying
these men lived in thickets, had the appearance of savages, and were
united by some queer, secret organisation. Miller continued stealthily,
answering to a profound curiosity. He could make out now a thicket of
stunted cedars and laurel bushes. It hid the boat and the mast for a
third of its height. He chose his path with more care. He tried to keep
out of the range of any eyes that might be watching from the thicket at
the foot of the mast The bushes fell away. He paused, examining from
behind the shelter of a dune the picture at last uncovered for him. The
dwarf growth twisted from a sandy bank which sloped upwards from the
stream and invaded the marsh for a distance of fifteen or twenty feet.
Miller guessed that it arranged one of the few shelters offered by the
marsh itself for human occupancy. The boat had been hauled close to the
bank. The rough stakes to which it was moored gave the camp a permanent
air. The boat was sloop-rigged. It was squat and, probably,
flat-bottomed for traffic in these channels. Unpainted and dirty as it
was, it lacked that abandoned appearance of the fisherman’s hulk in the
inlet. There was, moreover, life to be observed here. Miller held his
breath and studied it. Three men sat around a smouldering fire on the
bank. Bait had been right. They

had the semblance of savages. Nor, Miller realised, had he much
exaggerated when he had spoken to the coroner of uncivilised oystermen.
The faces of these men were covered with matted hair. It straggled in
long wisps from beneath cloths wrapped about their heads in place of
hats. Trousers and jackets, torn and stained, clung to their lanky
figures. Their sea-boots were the only apparel which appeared to be
whole. Only once while Miller looked did he hear a voice. Now and then
one communicated with another by means of a quick gesture, but for the
most part they stared from eyes, reddened and narrowed by the wind, into
the ashes of the fire. Behind them a rough lean-to, open at the front,
and constructed of cedar stakes and palmetto, raised a primitive
background. Empty oyster shells and tins littered the bank. Miller was
glad he had approached from the shelter of the dunes. Yet he felt a
strong desire to expose himself now, to question these strange men whose
habits were, to all appearances, aboriginal. He weighed the question. If
he had only brought his revolver he would not have hesitated. It would
be scarcely wise, however, to walk unarmed into this gathering since it
scarcely lacked the characteristics of an ambush. He was not blind to
the fact that his caution might be an injustice. The appearance of these
men, their very moroseness, might be borrowed from an occupation which
chained them almost perpetually apart from the basic decencies of life.
They might, indeed, welcome him as a diversion from their monotonous and
degrading routine. As Miller hesitated one of them arose and stepped
from the bank to the boat. For the first time a voice broke the silence,
hitherto disturbed only by the lapping of the water about the stakes and
the hull. “Come,” the man said. “High time we was off.” His voice, like
Tony’s, was harsh as if from disuse, but it was more guttural, more
unpleasant, accustomed, one might have said, to a strange language. The
others got to their feet and joined the one on the boat. They raised the
sail, cast off the moorings, and, lifting long poles from the deck,
pushed their way, with motions timed to odd grunts, northward through
the narrow stream.

Chapter XIV MILLER PREPARES TO FIGHT Miller stared after the oystermen
until the marsh grass had hidden everything but the sail which scarcely
stirred in the light breeze. He walked closer then, but the bivouac
disclosed no more than it had at first. So he turned and went back
through the dunes to the Dart. What he had seen added materially to his
worry. He felt he had made a mistake in urging the girl to return to the
sands. It was not safe for her to cross at the upper end of the inlet
since these men were so near. She had intimated, however, that the
excursion was a common one for her. Perhaps, then, the oystermen never
ventured nearer the evil island than their camp. Yet that view would
presuppose fear, must definitely remove them as a factor in the
situation. When he had reached the Dart he questioned Tony. The native
knew there were a number of oystermen working the banks to the north.
Once or twice in the past he had had glimpses of them, but he had never
communicated with them intimately. They sold their oysters and what fish
they caught, he said, in Sandport. “They’re not a pleasant looking
crew,” Miller said. “What kind of a reputation have they—for instance
among the inhabitants of Sandport?” Tony showed a little surprise.
“Some,” he answered, “have families—friends in Sandport.” “Then you
don’t think there’s anything wrong with these fellows I saw? I must say
they looked like pirates.” Tony shook his head. “Have you ever heard of
any secret organisation among them?” Tony’s face was impassive. Miller
could not be sure his denial was whole-

hearted. “I don’t know.” At least Miller understood he could get no
more satisfaction from Tony, He brought a book from the saloon and
stretched himself in the steamer chair. But he could not read. His
dejection annoyed him all the more because it was so at variance with
his natural character. Yet, try as he might, he could not throw it off.
Morgan went by towards noon, displaying a string of fish. “Why don’t you
fish, Tony?” Miller asked. “I expect to spend the night on the island
with the Andersons. Since you feel as you do there’s no necessity of
your coming with me. Row me ashore after luncheon and take the rest of
the day and the night to yourself.” Tony shook his head. -His attitude
was intensely disapproving, but, through devotion or the fear of being
left alone on the Dart, it was clear that he would share the adventure.
Miller did not attempt to reason with him now. Tony had too much on his
side. Shortly after luncheon he went down to his stateroom, threw a few
things in a bag, and directed Tony to place it in the dingy. He
hesitated for a moment, then took a revolver from a drawer, saw that it
was loaded, and slipped it in his pocket. “Row over to the sphinxes
temple,” he said when Tony had cast off. “You’ll agree we can deal with
flesh and blood there, and I promised you we’d make him a polite call We
owe it to him and to ourselves.” When they were close he hailed the tub,
but the fisherman gave no sign. They circled the hull. Its few portholes
were covered with dirty sacking so that they could see nothing of the
interior. “Closer!” Miller said resolutely. “I’m going on board.” He
climbed over the broken rail. He examined the deck. It was empty. There
was only one hatch. Miller faced that. His hand on the revolver in his
pocket, he

called : “Hallo, below there!” Aware of something like the reasonless
hatred Anderson had described, he kicked and pounded on the hatch. He
called again and again. “If I were certain he’s there I’d break the
thing in,” he said to Tony. “There’s something out of the way here.” He
lowered himself to the dingy in a bad temper, and directed Tony to
continue to the shore. “Draw the dingy above high water level, then keep
your eye on that boat while I look over the scene of your affair.” Tony
shook his head. “It’s day,” Miller said. “The snakes are drowsy in sunny
places.” He went up the path, carefully examining the underbrush on
either side. About half way to the slave quarters, at the spot where
Morgan and he had found Jake’s body, he saw several freshly broken
palmetto fronds. That undoubtedly was where Tony had wandered from the
path, where he had been held helpless by some compelling, intangible
force while the snake had crept near. But there was nothing else;
nothing the whole length of the path to give a clue to the nature of
this force, nothing if one excepted the hot, damp air that made
breathing almost painful. In this heavy atmosphere Miller’s depression
grew. His feeling of helplessness kept pace with it. His nerves jangled.
Turning, he harried back to the shore of the inlet. “Not a thing, not a
thing,” he said irritably in reply to Tony’s questioning look. He
pointed at the fisherman’s boat. “And that fellow—” Tony shook his head.

The native at his heels, Miller hurried to the coquina house. Anderson
and Molly met him at the steps. “Jim!” Molly called. “What’s the
matter?” “Enough,” he answered. He told them of Tony’s experience. “And
there’s something more,” he said. “Altogether it’s put me out of humour
with myself. My nerves seem to be on edge this afternoon.” “You, Jim?”
Molly said. “I prayed it wouldn’t get you.” Miller made an impatient
gesture. “Nothing has me, but I’ve ceased blaming you for staying here.
One can’t be beaten by such madness.” With an effort he forced himself
to speak of the girl. “Andy, there’s one thing—that girl.” Anderson’s
glance questioned him, “Yes,” Miller said, “I’ve seen her. I want to
know all you can tell me about her.” “You don’t think she had anything
to do with last night? ” Molly asked. “I can’t think that.” “She is so
strange,” Molly sighed. “I asked you on the Dart, Andy, when you spoke
of her as so strange if she was off her head. She is queer, I grant you
that—perhaps consciously so. That’s a question. Actually she is as sane
as you or I. Now what can you tell me about her?” “Very little,”
Anderson replied, “that can be put into words. Molly, you—” “It’s so
indefinite—the feeling you have about her,” Molly said. ” We’ve never
seen her much—scarcely at all lately. Occasionally we’ve spied her
running or walking through the forest—always with that curious detached
expression on her

pretty face. But what to me has seemed hardest to account for is the
way she makes you feel when she looks at you out of those big, deep
eyes, the way she seems to hold you aloof. But I have never thought she
was crazy.” “I’d stake my life she isn%” Anderson said. “The girl
suffers, and I believe it’s this island that makes her suffer. Perhaps
it affects her even more than it does us. She may be more receptive.”
“I’ve thought of that,” Miller answered. “Have you never asked Morgan
about her? I tried yesterday and he froze solid.” “He always does,”
Molly said. “I wanted to be friendly with her, but she wouldn’t let me.
She made me feel I can’t tell you how ill-at-ease. Then she ran away. I
spoke to her father. He let me see it made him very unhappy to talk
about her.” “But why?” Miller cried. “Because,” Anderson answered, “I
think Morgan fears it may be the other thing, or at any rate imagines we
suspect it. That would hurt him, anger him,” “And that’s all you can
tell me of her!” Miller said. “It’s how everything appears in this
place—elusive, just out of reach. If we could only get our hands on one
fact to start a theory that would hold water!” “I hate to see you this
way, Jim,” Molly said gloomily. “Don’t worry. I’ll get that fact if it’s
to be had. Meantime we must deal with something we can’t define,
something apparently impossible. But we can’t sit back in our ignorance
and say that and risk its running over us. No matter how preposterous it
seems to our commonsense we must take the island at its face value. In
the first place, I understand you have to hail a boat every time you go
to Sandport. There is no boat at the southern end of the island,
opposite Sandport?” Anderson shook his head. “There ought to be one,”
Miller went on. “I’ll send Tony to Sandport to hire a rowboat. We can
keep it tied on this side.”

Molly nodded approvingly, but Anderson wanted reasons.. “This business
of Tony’s,” Miller answered, “has taught me a lesson. I’ve concluded
that stubbornness is a poor relation of discretion. It’s brought you
nothing but the loss of—well, your peace of mind. It’s nearly cost me
Tony. I acknowledge nothing except that there appears to have been an
incomprehensible and fatal force at large in that piece of forest last
night and the night Jake died. Because we haven’t been able to get a
physical clue to it we can’t afford to sit back and say it doesn’t
exist. It’s there. It’s dangerous. Suppose it should spread to this
house? You haven’t been able to get any physical clue to the apparently
supernatural manifestations of this house either, have you? Suppose the
force should grow stronger and sweep the island? It would come from that
direction. You could not get to the Dart, but if you had any warning you
might escape to a boat and Sandport.” “It looks like surrender,”
Anderson said helplessly. “Nonsense. I’m no more friendly to the
supernatural than I was in Martinsburg. We’re fighting an unseen enemy,’
that’s all. We must skirmish against the only line he indicates to us.”
He called Tony, gave him some money, and sent him to Sandport to hire
the boat. For the sake of the others he forced his depression down. He
called out with an attempt at cheerfulness : “Out of our minds with it!
It will be dark soon enough. Andy, bring some kind of a table out here
and a pack of cards. We’ll try a little three-handed auction, and
tonight you’ll open that demonstrative bottle of wine—two if we want
them. The supernatural’s as friendly to cheerfulness as the devil to a
clergyman.” “What a blessed change!” Molly said. “We’ve done what we
could for the present. I repeat I’m not friendly to phantoms. My hands
itch to get at their throats.”

Chapter XV THE ROOM OF EVIL MEMORIES Anderson brought the table and the
cards. It was difficult at first, but finally they grew interested in
the game. Before they realised he had had time to complete his errand,
Tony was back. He explained briefly that he had hired a good boat, and
described its location at the river end of the island. They resumed
their game. It held them until the sun had set, until the dejection that
came with the twilight drove their minds from the cards. “I must think
of dinner,” Molly sighed, listlessly scoring a hand. “Tell Tony what to
do and look upon it as done,” Miller suggested. “0r better yet, why not
all of us pitch in and get dinner! It will be good fun. Tony can clean
up afterwards while we finish this rubber.” Molly and Anderson agreed
uninterestedly. Tony, who had been sitting on the steps, arose, and, as
a matter of course, entered the house with them. They kept close to each
other in the cold, dark interior until Anderson had struck a match and
lighted the diningroom lamp. While Tony made a light in the kitchen
Miller brought the lamps from the parlour and the library, and placed
them with the one already in the diningroom. They left no shadowed
corners there. He called to Molly and Anderson, who were in the kitchen
: “Where’s the spirit substantial enough to face this battery of
kerosene?” Tony looked at him disapprovingly. Miller laughed. “Set the
table, Tony, then fill that fireplace as full of wood as you can and set
it blazing. Do you mind, Molly, my taking your castle thus by storm?”

“Mind!” she called. “If you had been here every night!” Miller wandered
back to the kitchen. The size of the room made it appear bare,
unfurnished in spite of the old-fashioned stove, the iron pump and sink,
the table, and the two or three chairs scattered around. There were two
windows in the rear wall. One of them was open. Walking over to it.
Miller gazed out for a moment, then slammed it shut and locked it. “I
don’t see,” he said to Anderson, “why you didn’t have this brushwood
cleared out. It’s against this back wall. It’s a definite menace. Give
me an axe and I’ll start on it myself in the morning. If the wind’s
right we might set fire to it.” He paused. “For that matter,” he resumed
thoughtfully, “we might fire that unholy piece of woods.” “Too dry,”
Anderson said. ” There’s been no rain here in more than a month. The
whole island might go.” “What of it! Small loss!” Miller muttered. He
took off his coat. He rolled up his sleeves. “Molly, pin an apron on me.
I’m to be queen of the kitchen while Andy there does alchemy with
bottles. Those chops won’t take long. Hurry your magic, Andy.” As she
leaned over the stove a little colour came to Molly’s face. The sizzling
of the meat and the clinking of glass from the table, where Anderson was
trying to discount the lack of ice, combined with Miller’s constant
chatter to raise their spirits. “It’s like a studio feast in the Eue
d’Assass,” Molly said. “Remember,” Miller said, “the night I came in
from Saint Cloud with the new bull pup? We called him Buffalo Bill
because his chief aim was the breaking of china and glass.” So they went
on, reminiscing almost contentedly until dinner was ready, and

they had carried the steaming dishes into the diningroom. Tony spoiled
their illusion. He leaned against the mantel, uncomfortably near the
fire he had built, staring at the open door to the hall. There was a
tortured expression on his face. “See here, Tony—” Miller began. But he
recalled what the man had suffered last night. He went on more kindly :
“Sit in the kitchen doorway if you wish. Now, Molly, Andy, we’ll drink
to good health, peaceful minds, and victory,” The meal went better than
they had hoped. They toasted themselves with a semblance of laughter.
They drank enthusiastically to the carefree party they would have—if
nothing happened—in the most crowded, most brilliant restaurant in New
York. Afterwards they arranged the table in front of the fireplace and
returned to their game. After a few hands, however, Anderson looked
around. “May in the South!” he said significantly. “All the windows
closed and a blazing fire! Is any one too warm?” They glanced at each
other. Molly shivered. “Good heavens, Andy!” Miller said with an effort.
“I don’t know whether the blue ribbon belongs to you or Tony. Morgan’s
the only man on the island you can talk to without hearing the rustle of
spirit wings, and even he’s tainted. It’s your cut. Deal, Molly.” They
played late. Long after the cards had ceased to interest them they went
on, cutting, dealing, bidding, making beginner’s mistakes. Tony, on his
chair in the kitchen doorway, had fallen asleep. The fire had died down.
One of the lamps was out of oil. Its wick spluttered as the flame little
by little expired. Miller glanced at his watch. After eleven! He threw
down his cards and arose. “Molly!” he called sharply. “Keep your eyes
from that door. There’s no use going on with this farce of cards.
Reminds me of one stormy night my nurse

filled my infant mind with banshees.” He gripped the back of his chair.
“Children, I’m ready for whatever horrors the coquina house can afford.”
While Molly arose reluctantly Anderson remained in his chair, staring at
the smouldering logs. “Jim,” Molly pleaded,” don’t hear anything
tonight. Don’t let your mind be filled with awful things. If only you
could come down in the morning and look us in the eyes and say you had
slept well.” “I’ll do that,” he answered, “or if I’m disturbed I’ll
disturb back as hard as I can.” Anderson looked up, shaking his head.
“I’ve tried it. There’s nothing we can disturb. Perhaps tonight,
though—There are nights when one sleeps peacefully.” “If there weren’t,”
Molly breathed. “But you can’t tell,” Anderson went on. “One waits.”
“Doubtless a newcomer won’t fail of entertainment,” Miller said. He
walked over and shook Tony, who sprang to his feet. “Start your fire
again,” he suggested, “and draw that sofa over. You’ll be all right
here. He can keep one of these good lamps, Molly?” She nodded. “Then,
Andy, please take the other and show me to my room.” Anderson obeyed
slowly. With lagging steps he led them to the hall. The hall was cold
after the heated diningroom. Anderson started up the steps. Molly
followed him. Miller went last, curbing a strong desire to glance over
his shoulder. At the landing he did look back. Tony had come to the
door, where he stood staring after them hungrily.

The stairs swung back from the landing to a square hallway out of which
four doors opened. Anderson walked to the one in the farther right hand
corner. He put his hand on the knob, waited a moment, then pushed the
door open and stepped in. Molly, grasping his arm, followed him. Miller
entered after her. Anderson set the lamp on a bureau which stood between
the two windows in the front wall. While he lighted a sconce of candles
there. Miller glanced around the apartment where he was to spend the
night in an effort to prove to his friends that the supernatural is
wholly subjective and chiefly neurasthenic. As he looked, he felt none
too confident. The room was huge and dingy. It had an outworn air, the
air of a thing past use, a thing dead and decayed. A massive walnut
bed-stead stood beneath a canopy opposite the bureau. There was a
fireplace set in the wall to its right. A washstand had been placed to
its left, and carved chairs stood on either side at the head of the bed.
The wall paper, ancient and stained broadly, had a pattern of tarnished
bronze arabesques on a green background. Miller fancied it gave out an
odour, acrid and unhealthy. In two or three places it had fallen away
from the ceiling moulding and hung in pallid tatters. The room chilled
him-He turned to the others. Molly had her hand on her husband’s arm.
Anderson, ready to go, had taken up the lamp. The lamp shook. “At
least,” Miller said, “the summer heat can’t be blamed for the state of
one’s nerves on Captain’s Island.” He glanced around, again. “Once this
must have been very comfortable—for its period, even luxurious.
Evidently Noyer humoured the fair lady. I assume you’ve honoured me.
This is the room in which he cut her throat?” “I don’t know,” Anderson
said. “This is the largest room. It is a little harder to sleep here.
It’s where the girls said they heard—” “Jim, I begged Andy not to.
There’s a smaller room in the back if you’d rather.” “I choose to sleep
here and remember I’m grown up,” Miller laughed. His laughter stopped
abruptly. In that room it had a hollow sound. It startled them all. “You
see!” Molly said.

Miller tried to hide his own shock. “Merely disuse,” he answered. “The
room is unaccustomed to good spirits.” He laughed again challengingly.
“Tomorrow I’ll show you how to get rid of the bad ones. I’ll build a
fire here and smoke them out. If that doesn’t work I’ll send up to
Martinsburg for a vacuum cleaner. From the advertisements the tiniest,
most immaterial wraith wouldn’t have a ghost of a chance.” “No, Jim,”
Molly whispered. “Don’t.” She had assumed that air of strained
expectancy. Leaning a little forward, her head to one side, she
listened. Anderson touched her timidly. “Come, Molly. Let’s give Jim an
opportunity to put his will on the firing line.” “It’s been there all
along.” Miller answered. Molly turned at the threshold. “We’re just
opposite. We’ll leave our door open a crack.” “Mine, too,” Miller said.
“It’s a custom Tony’s foisted upon me on the Dart! Good night, and go to
sleep. Let them perform exclusively for me this once.” As their steps
died away across the wide hall the smile Miller had forced to his lips
vanished. He turned slowly and, alone, faced the decayed room, again
conscious of that disagreeable odour that seemed to come from the wall
paper.

Chapter XVI THE CRY IN THE NIGHT One thing admitted no question. THs
cold was unnatural unless the state of one’s mind could affect the body
so materially. He strode to one of the windows. He flung it open.
Leaning across the sill, he took deep breaths of the outside air. That,
too, was cold, and a biting wind stole down from the north. He drew his
coat tighter. He tried to realise that a few hours ago he had perspired
and gasped for breath in the dangerous forest. He looked at the sullen
sky. A dim and formless moon was suspended above the dunes. It showed
him a tiny patch of the inlet, but the water did not sparkle. From far
across the inlet and the sands came the muffed pounding of the breakers.
Shivering, he faced the room again. The tarnished arabesques of the wall
paper caught his eye. He leaned against the bureau with a sense of
loathing. For in the flickering light of the candles the arabesques
seemed to writhe and twine—like awakening snakes. He slammed the window
shut. The candles burned steadily. The arabesques were still. He crossed
the room, and, conquering his distaste, ran his finger over the surface
of the paper. It felt cold and damp. He confessed to no feeling of shame
in doing this. As he had told Anderson, he acknowledged nothing, but he
was prepared to let commonsense go by the board and to take experiences
here at their face value until their causes materialised. At present
this attitude was, in a measure, defensive. At his first entrance in the
room he had been aware of a stealthy sense of antagonism. He had felt
that he could not find sleep between its tarnished, stained, and damp
walls. Now he combated a strong desire to step out of it, to leave the
house, to seek whatever there might be of contest in the open. Yet, he
remembered, the only open spaces on the island were the clearings here
and at the plantation house. Any struggle against the mysteries of
Captain’s Island must probably take place beneath a roof of ugly
memories or in the forest where an unaccountable force unleashed death
on its helpless victims.

He turned from the wall. He opened the window again. Although the
arabesques resumed their creeping illusion he strangled his revulsion.
He placed his revolver beneath the pillow. When he was half undressed he
blew out the candles. He climbed into the great bed. He surrendered
himself to its soft, dank embrace. He had only half undressed because he
wished to be prepared for any eventuality. He had been sincere in
telling Molly that if he was disturbed he would disturb back. Moreover,
he anticipated four or five hours of wakefulness until daylight. Four or
five hours of waiting. That was what Anderson had said. That was why he
was so restless, why his depression had become reasonless, overwhelming.
He waited. Yet for what? Anderson, it was clear, had meant apparently
supernatural manifestations which came with the night and ceased at
dawn. In an undefined way Miller knew that he waited for more than
that—anticipated, in fact, some exceptional adventure that would begin
in this house and would end heaven knew where. He strove uselessly to
drive the premonition from his mind. Premonitions, he had always said,
were an invention to annoy weak-minded people needlessly. He smiled. Had
it come to the point where he was to be so classified? As a matter of
fact it should be simple to go to sleep here. Determined to try, he
rolled over. He could not find a comfortable position. Always he
combated a tingling desire to hurl the covers back and leap from the
chilling depths of this huge bed. And when he closed his eyes the
illusion of the arabesques writhed vaguely across the darkness—a circle
of snakes, closing in with unsheathed tongues, ready to strike. He
wished now that Anderson had never spoken of that fancy. A sly
whispering filled the room—or a hissing? It grew. It died away. It began
again. Miller clenched his fists and forced himself to listen calmly,
appraisingly. At last he relaxed. That at least was normally explained.
The rising wind was setting the cedars in motion. Thus, he told himself,
are supernatural stories bom and nourished. If he had been so easily
moved, what could be expected of ignorant natives like Tony? No doubt it
was the type of phenomena to which Anderson and Molly had bared their
nerves. He turned and tried again to sleep, but it was impossible. He
had no idea how much time had passed. He had been foolish to blow out
the candles. He might

have looked at his watch— All at once he was aware of another noise—a
noise he could not mistake. Some one was walking softly, either in the
hall, or—it was possible, the footsteps were so nearly inaudible—in his
own room, within a few feet of his bed. He flung back the covers. He sat
upright. He listened intently, wishing to be sure, unwilling to make a
ridiculous mistake. But there was no doubt. Some one was in his room
approaching the bed. “Who’s there?” he muttered. No answer came. For a
moment the sound ceased. Then he heard it again retreating. Outside the
whispering of the wind increased. A casement rattled in a sharper gust.
He reasoned. Could these evident footsteps be the pallid tatters of the
wall paper flapping in the wind? He remembered they were near the
ceiling, while this sound had come from the floor. It appeared now to be
in the hall. Then Anderson, Molly, or Tony—Yet none of them would have
entered his room in that stealthy fashion, or, entering, would have
refused to answer. Slipping out of bed, he tiptoed to the door. As he
had agreed with Molly he had left it open only a crack. Now it stood
wide. The wind, he argued, might be responsible. Yet he hurriedly pushed
it to. He felt a physical aversion for the black void of the hall where
the footsteps strayed. “Andy!” he said under his breath. “Tony!” No one
answered. The house was completely silent now except for the rattling of
the casements. He returned to the bed, arguing that the footsteps had
been imagination or some trickery of the wind, but he could not convince
himself. Little by little, as though the footsteps had started the
train, his mind began to play with the thought of a woman’s violent
death in this room. He knew practically nothing beyond the bare fact.
After pampering her, Anderson and the agent had said, Noyer had killed
her, had cut her throat; and that had almost certainly happened in this
room, perhaps, in this bed, with the arabesques

writhing in the candle-light. He pictured the lawless slaver coming
swiftly down that path through the dangerous forest; tramping up the
stairs; furiously bursting through that door, which he had just now
found mysteriously open; leaning over the bed; killing there that which
in his uncouth way he had loved. Had she struggled in the bed? Had she
had time to cry out before the great hands had tortured her throat and
the knife had flashed? The theory that the essence of tragedy lingers at
the place of its making had never impressed Miller. He did not yield to
it now. Yet in spite of his mental struggles, these fancies, these
questions persisted. Even the thought of the girl was powerless to guide
his imagination to solider ground, although he realised that his future
in relation to hers depended on his conquest of a subtle force to which
his present experience might, indeed, be traced. He found himself
listening for the footsteps again. Were they what Molly awaited when she
held her head on one side in an attitude of strained expectancy? The
footsteps did not return, but soon another sound stole into his
consciousness —a slow, even, heavy dripping. This time there was no
doubt. The sound was in his room, within hand’s reach, close to the head
of the bed, as though— He shuddered. He sat upright. The quick motion
set the arabesques writhing behind his eyelids. He brushed his hand
across his face. He made an effort to regain his sense of proportion. He
would find out what that sound was. No matter how much courage it took
to reach for his slippers beneath the bed in the vicinity of that
sodden, suggestive dripping, he would get up. He would light the
candles. His unwilling fingers found the slippers. He stepped to the
floor. He pushed through the inky blackness to the bureau. The dripping
sound followed him. He paused, the match in his hand, wondering if Noyer
had heard something like that—had heard and fled from his lifeless,
disfigured victim. Then what he had half expected rang through the
echoing house—the cry of a woman, full of terror, strangled, suddenly
broken off.

Chapter XVII THE BLUE FLAME Although he shivered with cold Miller felt
the perspiration spring out on his forehead. He struck the match and
held it to the candles. The arabesques appeared to twist and twine more
violently. The odour from the paper seemed more pungent in spite of the
open window. The dripping ceased. He glanced at the floor near the head
of the bed, but he saw nothing. It was several minutes before he
realised it was Molly who had screamed. He threw on his clothes, picked
up a candle, snatched his revolver from beneath the pillow, and stepped
to the hall. Molly’s cry had not been repeated, but something was moving
at the foot of the stairs, and he could hear thick breathing. He paused
before the door, open a little as Molly had promised. He was afraid to
knock, afraid to ask. Finally he forced the words. “Andy! Molly called—”
Molly’s voice, still a little choked, came to him. “There’s something in
this room.” Miller pushed the door open. “Wait!” Anderson commanded in a
level, lifeless voice. ” There’s danger. I said the circle was closing.
It is closing.” Miller paused on the threshold. Molly sat up in bed, a
dressing gown thrown over her shoulders. Anderson leaned on his elbow.
“Don’t come in, Jim,” he said. “Listen!” Miller looked around the room.
He spoke reassuringly. “There’s no one—nothing.”

“Listen!” Anderson repeated. Miller heard nothing, so after a moment he
stepped into the room. Then he heard —a sound like shot shaken in a
crimper. “They’re daring,” Anderson said dreamily. “I knew they were
growing daring. I was afraid they were getting ready—” “Andy!” Miller
cried. “Pull yourself together!” He held his revolver in front of him
and stooped. He looked under the bed, in the four corners. He could see
nothing, but the rattle was repeated. “You two get out of here,” he
whispered. “It’s safe to step down on this side. But hurry. Get to the
hall.” When they had obeyed him he arose, followed them, and closed the
door. The rattling came again, apparently from just within the room, yet
Miller had seen no snake. Shaking his head, he led them down the stairs.
He found Tony, lying on the steps half way up. The man raised his
bearded face to the candle, mouthing horribly. “I tried to come,” he
muttered, “I tried—” “You’re not hurt?” Miller asked sharply. Tony shook
his head. He crept backwards down the stairs, his face turned to the
light. The diningroom fire smouldered. As he entered Miller felt a cold
breath on his cheek. He hurried through to the kitchen. After a moment
he called : “Tony! Did you open this window?” He came back. “Open of
those windows—you saw me close it and lock it. You must have opened it,
Tony.” Vehemently the native shook his head.

“Did you hear anything come through here?” “All night,” Tony answered,
pointing to the hall door,” something moving— walking out there.” “And
the window in your bedroom,” Miller said to Anderson. “That was open,
too, but it’s high and on the side.” “Jim, remember you didn’t see
anything,” Anderson said softly. “I’m going through this house from top
to bottom,” Miller said determinedly. “I shan’t sleep again until I
know. Make yourselves as comfortable as possible here. Molly, fill that
lamp. Let’s start this fire up.” He stopped and threw a log on the
andirons. “Did you hear?” Molly asked under her breath. Still stooping.
Miller turned to her. She had assumed again that tense, listening pose.
“What?” he asked. She put her finger on her lips. “Outside. Wait. It may
come again.” Taut and expectant they waited for several minutes, hearing
only the crackling of the fresh log and the moaning of the wind in the
chimney. Then Molly raised her hand. A quavering voice reached them,
very faintly. Miller sprang to his feet. “Stay here,” he said. He ran to
the hall, drawing his revolver from his pocket. “Jim!” Molly cried. ”
Where are you going?” “Don’t come, Andy,” he called,” unless I shout.”

He flung the front door open and ran into the clearing. Momentarily the
moon swayed free of its enveloping clouds. Abruptly the tiny section of
the inlet flashed back its light. There, in a frame of trees with a
background of black and ragged dunes, stood the fisherman on the deck of
his rotten tub—gigantic, statuesque. Immediately the clouds snatched the
moon back to their obscure embrace. The picture snapped out. The wind
strained and tore past Miller. He could scarcely keep his eyes open to
its fury. But he started across the clearing towards the path, for he
fancied even in this darkness there was something there at the edge of
the clearing. He raised his revolver. He crept forward, muttering to the
night : “Come out! Whoever you are don’t try to run back. Come out! Come
out!” A figure threw itself against him and raised warm hands to his
face. His arm with the revolver dropped. “You—” he began. “I have been
at the edge of the forest,” the girl said. “Why are you here?” he asked.
“To tell you to go back. Last night—remember. Tonight you must run this
way. The island is not safe.” “Why?” he said. “I shall not run.” “Yes.
You must run to the river. You cannot go back this way. You cannot get
to the inlet. I didn’t think I could get through, but I got through to
tell you that. Run to the river. It may be safe there.” “For God’s
sake,” he begged, “tell me what it is.” “The island is full of death
tonight.” “Then go to the house. Take the Andersons to the river.
There’s a boat there.”

“Come with me.” “No. I shall stay and fight this death. I have to know
what it is. Don’t be afraid for me.” He could feel her trembling beneath
her heavy black cloak. She dragged at his arm. “No, no. I love you. I
will leave the island with you.” By sheer strength she pulled him a step
or two backwards. “You have lied to me,” she said fiercely. “If you
loved me you couldn’t question now.” Suddenly her face was etched
against the darkness. A blue gleam seemed to play over it, to disclose
its tortured, passionate terror. And, as she pulled at his arm, the
light reached her wrists. Her wrists were torn and bleeding. Miller
grasped them with a cry and turned. Above the dangerous forest floated a
pallid, unnatural light. It was blue. It wavered. It increased. It
seemed to fill the sky. The girl sank to the ground. He tried to raise
her, but she drew back. “It is too late,” she said in a dead voice. “You
wouldn’t listen. There is no hope now.”

Chapter XVIII THE PATH TO THE FLAME MILLER slipped his revolver in his
pocket and caught the girl up in his arms. As he carried her towards the
steps their shadows were flung by the blue light in grotesque
distortions across the surface of the coquina house. He thought she had
fainted, but when at the door he stooped and kissed her lips she
responded with a quick abandonment. Anderson waited fretfully in the
hall. He threw the door open. Molly was at his back. Tony stood
hesitant, just within the diningroom. “Who—” Anderson began. “The girl!
Where—” “She came with a warning,” Miller answered. Molly cried out:
“What is that light, Jim?” Anderson ran down the steps. “The woods have
been fired between here and the plantation!” “No, Andy,” Miller called
after him. ” The light is above the trees. It is not fire.” He carried
the girl to a chair in the diningroom. “Take care of her, Molly. I—” He
broke off. Molly looked at him, guessing the truth. Anderson returned
quickly. “That ghastly light!” he said. “It isn’t fire.” Miller pointed
at the girl’s torn wrists. She quivered before his gesture and tried to
hide her hands.

“The wrists again!” Molly whispered. Tony shrank against the mantel.
“Tell me,” Miller demanded, “how were your wrists injured?” She thrust
her wrists behind her back. “Answer me,” he said almost roughly. “Was it
coming through that piece of woods?” She pressed her lips tightly
together. There was no colour in her face. “The one physical clue!”
Miller cried “Answer me! Answer me! Do you know how your wrists were
torn?” After a moment she nodded slowly. “Then tell us! So much depends
on that! Tell us!” She hung her head. She would not answer. “Tell us!”
he begged, “or, after all, are you leagued with the infernal place
against us—against me?” When at last she answered the words came with a
dreadful slowness as though their passage tortured her throat. “No. But
I can’t tell you that. It would be easier to die than to tell you that.”
Her head fell forward. She would not expose her hands, so, although she
tried to turn away, the others could see the tears fill her eyes and
overflow and drop to her cloak. Miller stepped aside. “Molly!” he said
softly. While Molly went to her he drew Anderson to the window. Many
shadows thrown by the blue light danced in the clearing.

“There’s nothing for it, Andy,” he said in an undertone, “I’m
going—there,” “Jim! After all that’s happened in those woods?” “Yes. One
is not safe here for that matter. She said so. But the truth is there
tonight for the taking,” He glanced at the girl. “I have to have the
truth. I must clear this up no matter what the risk. But don’t worry. If
one takes the initiative—you see that’s not been done on Captain’s
Island yet. I shall do it.” “Then, of course,” Anderson said, “I shall
come with you.” Miller shook his head. “Molly!” he reminded, “and the
girl! I don’t have to tell you, Andy—From the first day—You can see for
yourself they can’t be left. Tony’s in a funk— worthless. One of us must
go, one must stay. I have more at stake. If I don’t come back take them
to the boat. Get to Sandport. But I’m not a fool. I’ll go
carefully—slowly. I’ve had enough warning. I don’t expect to be ambushed
by any one—anything.” He threw off Anderson’s detaining hand. “Don’t
let’s have a scene. Don’t alarm them. Let me get off quietly. I’ve a gun
for snakes or whatever isn’t bullet-proof, and the other thing—what I’ve
heard here—has only hurt my nerves and my pride. It’s all right, Andy.
That light shines on the key to the whole mystery.” He tiptoed across
the floor, but when he reached the hall he heard the girl trying to
rise. “Where is he going! Don’t let him go I He must not go! Let me up!”
She screamed: “Don’t let him go!”

Miller threw the screen door open. He sprang into the clearing. He ran
swiftly across it. The wind had risen to a gale. The trees moaned and
thrashed in the angry gusts. But the wind, Miller noticed, detached no
flames from the blue, light. The whole mass, which was not as large or
as high as he had thought at first, swayed bodily in a narrow arc. When
he reached the path that led to the shore where he had left his boat, he
was a little sheltered from the wind, and the light, he found, did not
penetrate to him. He went slowly, his hand on the revolver in his
pocket. He went silently, recalling that the girl had said the path-to
the inlet was closed to him. His care and stealth availed, for he
reached the shore without experience. He paused there for a moment,
leaning against the wind which now swept unimpeded across the water. He
faced the entrance to the path through the dangerous forest where Jake
had died, where Tony last night had been bound by the invisible force.
The blue light was strong enough here to show him that entrance—a black
cavern, flanked by trees that twisted and strained as though in an agony
of warning. He shrank from stepping between these Dantesque sentinels
through that sombre portal. His mind went to the lantern which he knew
lay in the boat only a few feet away. But he had come so far by stealth
and silence. Stealthily and silently he must go on. He realised it was
his wisest campaign against that which conspired death beyond the
frantic trees. With an effort he stepped forward. Little by little he
conquered his revulsion. He entered the path. Again the light failed to
reach him. The darkness was like a cloak. It suffocated. In spite of the
keen wind tearing past him he could scarcely breathe. He had no
illusions. He knew he was in danger—a danger all the more to be feared
because it was uncharted. He slipped his revolver from his pocket. His
other hand he carried outstretched before him. Painfully he crept up the
path, momentarily expectant af the enemy’s first move.

His half serious remark to Anderson about firing this piece of woods
came back to him. A match dropped in the dry underbrush at the will of
this wind would surrender the forest to a swift destruction. Let the
enemy make its first move, let him feel the symptoms of an overpowering
lassitude, and he would drop that match, he would yield the woods to
that cleansing conflagration. But the enemy was wary. Its attack did not
come. Almost gasping for breath he went on, pushing back the darkness
with his outstretched hand as a swimmer cleaves the water. He knew he
must have come half way. He realised he must be in the vicinity of the
place where Jake and Tony had been caught, yet he continued unimpeded.
Just beyond, however, he felt a return of the impression that had
unnerved him in the coquina house, that Anderson had described as always
lurking there in the dark halls. He knew he was not alone in the forest.
There was some presence behind him in the path. He had heard no sound
save the tearing of the wind, but he was sure. His retreat had been cut
off. He took his match box from his pocket. If he should sense anything
ahead of him, if ho found himself hemmed in, he would fire the woods.
There would be light enough then to disclose the nature of the attack.
But while the feeling of a presence in the rear persisted, he received
no warning from the front. He knew the ruins must be near. In the
semicircle of the slave quarters he would feel safer. He would be able
to see the light from there, to study it, perhaps, to detect its source.
Only a few steps morel He stumbled. The underbrush snatched at his legs.
He was off the path. He stopped abruptly, his throat contracting, on the
point of striking his match. But a saving thought came to him. He turned
to the right. The blue light played faintly there. He understood. He had
reached the end of the path. Instead of turning with it through the
ruins he had plunged straight ahead into the thicket. Carefully picking
his way, he regained the path and ran between the ruins into the
semicircle. He had passed unmolested through the dangerous forest. He
looked around. The light flickered now above the double row of trees
that lined the avenue. It had grown very faint. While he looked at it,
puzzled, at a loss, it faded out. The wind seemed to gather greater
strength as though the passing of the light had unleashed its last
restraint.

Miller was bewildered. Had his initiative, indeed, made itself felt and
driven the solution beyond his reach? A reaction swept him. At the
moment when he had fancied his hand at the throat of the mystery he was
suddenly left as helpless as ever. In a burst of irritation he
questioned if he, as well as the Andersons, was not the victim of some
gigantic hoax. He brushed the question aside. There had been no trickery
about the girl’s emotion or her fear for him. He thought of going on to
the plantation house, of arousing Morgan, of telling him of the injury
to the girl’s wrists, of her terror, and of her warning; yet that might
involve her in difficulties he could not foresee. Should he then retrace
his steps through the forest and return empty-handed to the coquina
house? In the first place he did not want to go back through the forest
before daylight. He had keyed himself to the strain of traversing it
when he had expected to achieve a solution of the mystery. Now the
strain was broken. And he recalled the sense of a presence behind him in
the path. He was aware of that sense again, so strongly that he glanced
over his shoulder. He could see nothing. The darkness was absolute. The
idea came to him that some clue might hide within these ugly ruins. He
had never had an opportunity to explore them, yet they must have
sheltered the worst horrors of Noyer’s reign, and they bounded that
piece of forest. He stepped forward. This definite objective tautened
his courage. He walked faster. He had almost reached the door of the
nearest of the quarters when the light flashed again. Only this time it
was white and overwhelming. He felt himself consumed in its vicious
flames. Immediately it snapped out. His consciousness went out with it.

Chapter XIX WITHIN THE CIRCLE He lay apparently for a long time while
his memory stirred and his mind reluctantly resumed its functions. He
recalled the beginning of the night at the coquina house, the sounds and
feelings that had disturbed him there, the cry from outside, the picture
of the silent fisherman, erect against the dunes, the warning of the
girl, the blue light, her terror, his journey through the woods, his
determination to seek a clue in the ruins. Where was he now? He lay in
utter darkness. The rushing of the wind was as fierce as ever. Then,
gently at first, he heard a sound from the black cloak of the night—the
sound he had heard in Anderson’s bedroom, the sound that had shared so
often in the island’s manifestations. It was not far away—only six or
seven feet, he thought—and straight ahead. After a moment the rattle
came again. This time it was answered from the rear. It was taken up on
either side. It I’ose. It died away. Its volume grew again. An acrid,
loathsome odour reached his nostrils. He lay within a circle of snakes;
and, although from the lack of pressure he knew he was not bound, he was
powerless to move. He choked back the cry that tore at his throat. His
mind was clearer now. He forced it to work logically. If he was not
bound why was it impossible for him to move? He recalled the white
light. An explanation of his helplessness ran hotly to his brain.
Meantime the revolting prophecy of the rattling continued. While he
fancied the deadly circle was closing, he set his will to work. He
succeeded in twitching the fingers of one hand. Actually it was not much
more than a minute after his return to consciousness when he drew his
knees up and raised himself to a sitting posture. He patted the ground
at his side. It was hard like packed earth. Certainly he was not in the
forest. Then—?” Fighting the racking pains that ran through his head and
body, he reached in his

pocket for his revolver and his match box. The revolver was gone. He
had been carrying it when the white light had flashed. Of course it had
fallen from his hand. The match box, however, was there. He took out a
match and scraped it. In answer to the slight noise the rattling rose
excitedly. The match blinded him at first, but before it was half burned
out his eyes accustomed themselves to its light. He glanced quickly
around. He saw no snakes. He was in the centre of a small, bare room
whose floor, as he had thought, was of packed earth. The flame played on
rough grey walls. It failed to disclose the top of a peaked roof. He
noticed a line of brushwood, perhaps two feet high, which ran around all
four walls. Unquestionably the snakes lurked behind that screen. Why did
they not come out to converge on him? When would they come out? Just
before the match expired he saw a closed oak door in the wall to his
left. He knew now that he was in one of the slave quarters which he had
started to explore—probably in one of those which yesterday he had
noticed had been repaired. But how had he come there? And why was he
left surrounded by snakes which did not attack? Now that he felt himself
placed at the heart of the mystery he could not stop to reason. His
danger was too apparent. He must reach the oak door. He must escape from
the circle. With painful effort he raised himself to his knees. He was
by no means sure he could stand upright, yet he must try. He must get to
the door. He paused on his knees. Something moved at the door. It must
have been opened a little, for a streak of yellow light cut across the
left hand wall. He waited, breathing heavily. It was as though his
return to consciousness and his determination to escape had been known,
and that this sickly light was a warning that the door was watched, that
escape was impossible. The streak grew. It reached the further wall. The
door was thrown wide. Framed on the threshold; Miller saw the great
figure of the fisherman. For a moment he stood there, staring at Miller
in the light of the lantern he held. His eyes had the same fixed look
Miller had remarked before. His lips were pressed tightly together.

So Anderson’s instinct had been right! The fisherman was at the bottom
of it. Probably he had done for Jake. But Tony! Tony had seen no one.
Miller was unwilling to believe. The absence of motive, the wanton
cruelty, these elaborate preparations! A mad thought came to him. Could
there be any connection between this figure and the giant slaver, long
since dead? He spoke with difficulty. “What—does all this mean? Will you
help me out of here?” The fisherman’s stare did not waver. “These
snakes!” Miller whispered. The fisherman’s face showed no change. It was
such a face as one might fancy beneath the mask of an executioner.
Miller struggled to his feet. He swayed. He attempted to step forward.
Now the fisherman moved. He whipped a cord from his pocket and threw his
great bulk towards Miller. Miller raised his fists. He tried to hold the
figure off, but his strength was nothing against this giant. He went to
the floor. A knee was on his chest. Like a child he was rolled from side
to side while the cord was fastened around his arms and legs. “What are
you going to do?” Miller gasped. The fisherman arose and walked to the
wall. He kicked a portion of the brushwood away, disclosing a square
pine box. He turned to the corner. He lifted a long, slender pole which
stood there. Miller saw that a cord ran down the pole and made a loop at
the lower end. The fisherman returned to the box, and, using the end of
the pole, raised the lid. An angry rattling came from the box. The
fisherman thrust the pole inside. “What are you going to do?” Miller
repeated. The fisherman did not turn. Carefully, systematically he moved
the end of the

pole with the loop backwards and forwards in the box. One hand clutched
the cord near the top of the pole, after a moment drew it tight, then
slowly raised the pole until the end with the loop was above the edge of
the box. The flat head of a snake was caught in the loop. Its bead-like
eyes gleamed in the lantern light. They found Miller’s eyes and rested
there. The forked tongue darted in and out of the revolting and venomous
mouth. Miller strained at his bonds. He could not move his hands or his
feet the fraction of an inch. “Let me up. What are you going to do?” he
asked with dry lips. The fisherman continued to raise the pole until the
snake’s circular, shining body curled and flapped about his legs. Miller
watched, fascinated. While the body thrashed, the head, caught in the
loop, remained still. The evil eyes did not leave his. The fisherman
turned and stepped towards Miller. He lowered the pole until the snake’s
body was beating the floor with soft, abhorrent strokes until the head
almost rested on the packed earth. With a deliberate slowness the
fisherman brought the snake closer to Miller. It tried to get its head
free to coil. When this sly, snaillike march was arrested close to
Miller’s bound and helpless body the fisherman would slip the loop and
spring back. Then the snake would coil. In its anger it would strike at
what was nearest. Inch by inch this slow death, whose every step he
could foresee, approached. The tiny eyes held him. It seemed impossible
that the reasonless fury behind them could project to him the supreme
unconsciousness. He shuddered. “Man! You can’t do this!” He wet his
lips. “Or—then—Faster! Faster!” For the first time the mask-like face of
the fisherman altered. The tight lips parted. They stretched in a
distorted smile. He took another step forward. The snake was very near.

The evil of the smile aroused Miller. He forced his eyes from the
snake’s. The girl, whom he would never see again if this torturing
execution was carried out, flashed through his mind. He saw her as she
had been that first morning on the beach, in her white robe, bent to the
wind, gazing out to sea. He remembered her just now in the coquina
house, hiding her bleeding wrists, crying out that they must not let him
go. She had known then that he would risk death. Did she know it would
come to him here and in this fashion? Hope was born. He could not
analyse her attitude, her refusal to tell what she knew of these horrors
of the island, of her own connection with them; but she could not, after
that warning, after that abandonment on the steps, let him end like
this. She must have conquered whatever forces had held her from
speaking. She must have indicated to Anderson, Tony, and Molly what he
faced. If she had done that, those friends, he knew, would not take the
road to the river and the boat And the fisherman probably did not guess
that she had been to the coquina house. So he smiled back, and he cried
out at the top of his lungs : “Andy! Tony!” If they came even after the
snake had struck there might be time for a tourniquet, for some
antidote. At least he would have a chance. The travesty of a smile left
the fisherman’s face. He paused. He glanced towards the half open door.
Miller looked, too, expectantly, and he saw Morgan run in. There was no
humour in the genial little man’s face now. He stopped dead, and drew
back. His lips twitched nervously. “Morgan!” Miller cried. Morgan spoke
with a distinct effort There was a note of helplessness in his voice.
“You, Miller, trapped! My heavens! How did this happen?” “Don’t ask
questions,” Miller said. “Thank the Lord you’re here. Get me up. Get me
away from that snake.” Morgan stared at him. The fisherman kept his eyes
on the little man. At last Morgan pressed his hands together then spread
them in a wide gesture. “I can do nothing, Miller. This is pretty
tough.”

“What do you mean?” Miller cried. Morgan hung his head. “Just that. I’m
helpless to save you. If you’d only come to spend the night with me as I
asked! You’d be safe in bed now.” “You mean—” Miller gasped. “It’s
impossible!” “I can’t tell you what I mean,” Morgan answered. “Tell me,”
Miller begged. Morgan turned away. “No—not even to dead men.” The
fisherman still watched. At last Morgan made a quick gesture. The
fisherman’s fingers twitched at the cord which imprisoned the snake’s
head. Then his hand grew rigid. “Better not!” Morgan and the fisherman
swung around at the quiet command which Miller had hoped for, had almost
felt sure would come. “Andy,” he said with a trembling laugh, “Don’t
shout ‘hands up’ until you’ve put a charge of shot in that snake.”
Anderson stepped inside. “Cover them, Tony,” he said. Tony entered,
raising his revolver. Anderson lowered his shot-gun and fired. Miller
saw a piece of flaming wadding from the shell bury itself in the
brushwood, but his relief at watching the snake’s body torn by the shot
drove everything else for the moment from his mind. The fisherman tossed
the pole and the shattered snake behind him. He turned as though for
guidance to Morgan; but Morgan, his face twisted again, faced the

revolver with which Tony threatened him. “Don’t lose sight of that
fisherman, Andy,” Miller said. “Keep an eye on him while you cut this
rope.” Anderson stooped and cut the cord. He helped Miller to his feet.
“Morgan?” Anderson said. “What does this mean?” “He’s been asking that.”
Morgan answered. “Well, find out if you can. I can’t tell you.” “I’ve
found out one thing—how Jake died. It’s murder, Morgan.” “You try to
connect me with that!” “I’ll try. And this attempt—” “Fortunately he
wasn’t hurt,” Morgan answered. “My story,” Miller said, “and the
evidence of these snakes, collected here, will hurt!” “Evidence! There
goes that evidence.” He pointed to the brushwood in the corner where the
flaming wadding from Anderson’s gun had fallen. The brushwood was
beginning to blaze. Miller tried to stamp it out, but the twigs were
like tinder. They crackled in the fire that quickly swept the length of
the wall. The rattling of the snakes, just now menacing, arose in a
staccato appeal. In a moment the fire would be at the door. “Take these
two out and keep them covered,” Miller said. “Don’t let them get away.
We’ll reach the bottom of this business now,” He followed the others
into the gale-swept semicircle. The fire was through the doorway almost
at his heels. It licked its way in the dry grass along the wall towards
the opening between the quarters. There the wind would catch it finally
and deliver to its hungry tongues the evil piece of woods. As the flames
rose the trees of the avenue sprang into gargantuan, twisted

motion. Through their straining branches the rear of the plantation
house gleamed white. The flames also showed Miller the backs of Molly
and the girl, seated on a fallen log at the side of the avenue. The
girl’s head was hidden on Molly’s shoulder. He looked away. The
difficulty of the situation stifled him. Her father involved in this
brutal scandal! Undoubtedly she had saved his life, yet what was her own
share? He swung on Morgan angrily. “Answer my questions. Explain this
business.” “I can explain nothing,” Morgan answered. “As far as I am
concerned there’s nothing to explain beyond the fact that I found you in
the hands of that giant and told you the obvious thing that I couldn’t
handle him and get you away. What do I know 1 These natives I Their
purposes are beyond me. You people seem determined to incriminate me
somehow or other. That’s nonsense. Let’s be sensible and go to the house
and have a drink while Rome burns.” Miller grasped Morgan’s arm. He
shook it savagely. “You say I’m too determined. Understand, I’m
determined to find out what it is you won’t tell even to dead men—why
you’ve played this Judas part, why you’ve put the Andersons on the rack,
why you killed Jake, why you tried to kill Tony and me. And I’ll find
out. There isn’t a rat-hole in that house of yours I won’t search for a
reason. And your daughter! Look at her sitting there.” Morgan turned
wildly. “My daughter!” “She warned me,” Miller said. “She saved my life.
Even if your fisherman is a sphinx, do you think she’ll keep silent
now?” Morgan’s jaw dropped. An animal-like cry left his mouth. As Tony,
momentarily surprised, lowered his revolver, Morgan ran to the corner of
the building, sprang across the flames now blazing there, and leaped
into the tangled undergrowth. Tony raised his arm. He aimed at the broad
back. Miller struck the gun up. “No, Tony. It isn’t necessary.”

For as Morgan had jumped, the wind had seized the flames and had leaped
shrieking with them into the forest after his retreating figure. The
thicket crackled like a scattered skirmish line. The fire licked along
the trunks to the waving tree tops. The glare became blinding. Miller
turned gravely to Anderson. “That thicket will hold him back like a
thousand hands. Perhaps it’s better than he deserved. You and Tony take
that tongue-tied fellow to the plantation house. I’ll bring Molly and
th—the girl.” He walked slowly, reluctantly to the fallen log where the
two sat with their backs still turned. He touched the girl’s bowed head.
He spoke gently : “Your—your father got away.” Her head went a little
lower. He had to stoop to catch her answer. “He is not my father.” She
said no more. He did not have the heart to question her then.

Chapter XX NOYER’S RELICS They entered the plantation house through the
kitchen. They saw no one. A lamp turned low burned in the library—that
same dim eye that had regarded Miller the night he had sailed into the
inlet. They left Molly and the girl there and debated in the hall what
disposition to make of their prisoner. Miller suggested the cupola.
“Noyer rigged it up,” he said, “as a corrective for his house servants.
We can’t lock him in, but it has wrist and leg irons. I dare say we
would be justified.” It was the best expedient. With the revolver at his
back the silent fisherman climbed willingly enough. Miller set his
lantern on the floor of the cupola. He raised one of the irons by its
chain. He started. He stooped swiftly. He held the iron close to the
light and examined it. “Andy,” he cried. “Look here!” The edge of the
iron was wet. Miller ran his finger around it. When he held his finger
up it was stained red. “They had her here,” he said,” chained in this
place! She must have known what was on foot and refused to share in it.
Their only excuse for such barbarity would be to keep her from coming to
us. Her wrists are small. You can see. She managed to pull them through
and escape. My heavens, Andy 1 The humiliation! If he wasn’t her father
he had a father’s place. No wonder she wouldn’t tell us how her wrists
were hurt.” He raised his eyes to the fisherman. “You silent devil! I’ll
find a way to make you speak when I get you in a courtroom.” Anderson
picked up another set of irons.

“We’re justified. Anything is justified,” he said, “only I wish it was
Morgan we had.” The fisherman made no effort at resistance. He stood
stoically while they placed the irons around his wrists and ankles, and
screwed the bolts tight. “They fit him well enough,” Miller said. “No
chance of his slipping out of them.” He brought his face close to the
fisherman’s. He stared into the unwinking eyes. “Do you realise you’re
likely to swing for this business?” But the mask-like face did not
alter. The huge shoulders did not tremble. “It’s no use,” Miller said;
“he won’t talk.” Anderson started down the ladder, but Miller’s eyes
were attracted to the floor. After a moment he called Anderson back.
“What do you suppose this powder is, Andy?” He pointed to a few yellow
grains directly beneath the trap in the roof of the cupola. The chain
which held the fisherman to the wall clanked. Miller looked up. The
man’s face had at last altered. Its quality of a mask had been destroyed
by a positive emotion, and that emotion was fear. “It means something,”
Miller cried triumphantly. “By Jove! I believe I can guess what.” While
Anderson and Tony pressed close, and the fisherman, his face blank
again, looked on, Miller bent down and scraped the grains into a little
heap. “Looks like sand,” Anderson said. “I’ve seen such sand before,”
Miller answered,” on the Fourth of July for instance.” He took his match
box, struck a match, and touched it to the powder. The yellow grains
hissed. They sprang into a brilliant blue flame. The flame died, leaving
a

tiny mass of carbon on the floor. “The blue light!” Anderson cried.
“Andy, Tony, lift me up here.” They raised him to the trap in the roof.
He pushed it back and put his head and shoulders through. After a moment
he lowered a long, rusty iron rod to whose end was fastened an
old-fashioned brazier protected by wire netting. “Look at this relic,”
Miller said when he was on the floor again; “something from Noyer’s
days.” He held the brazier so he could glance in its top. “From the
amount of carbon here it was kept well filled tonight. It was a signal,
Andy. For what? For those wild oystermen—” He nodded at the fisherman.
“Probably friends and accomplices of his.” He grew thoughtful. “The girl
knows, but I hate to put her on the stand now.” “I think she knows
everything,” Anderson replied. “I’m not so sure of that,” Miller said.
“But she knows why this light was burned. Anyhow we’ve done all we can
here. Go on down. We haven’t been through the servants’ rooms yet.
There’s Morgan’s man and his cook. If they’re still here we may get
something out of them.” They found, however, only the woman. Evidently
terrified by the fire, she had buried her head beneath the covers and
lay there, shivering and—when they shook her and questioned her—almost
incoherent. Miller, disappointed, stared from the window. The entire sky
in the southwest appeared to be in flames. But he fancied the fire would
burn itself out in the marshes, that the coquina house would be spared.
He hoped for that. In the light

of what they already knew they might find something there of value. He
was almost afraid now that the fire would destroy too much. He turned
back to the woman impatiently. “At least you ought to be able to tell us
where the man is—Morgan’s man.” “I don’t know,” she answered. “He has
the next room. Didn’t you hear him go out?” “Yes—about eleven o’clock,
but I don’t know where.” “Look here,” Miller said; “is he anything to
you? Are you—” “He’s my husband,” she answered. “And he didn’t tell you
where he was going?” “No. I’m afraid. I’m—Why do you ask me? I’m the one
that wants to know.” “Nothing to be had here,” Miller said. “We’d better
scatter. I told Morgan I’d search every rat-hole in the place and he let
me see plainly enough he didn’t like the idea. It’s worth a chance. We
may turn up something. We’ll meet in the library.” When Miller entered
the library empty-handed an hour later, he found Anderson and Tony
already there. They, too, had been unsuccessful. “We thought we’d wait
until you came before beginning on this room,” Anderson said. Miller
glanced around. The girl lay on the sofa, her face to the wall. She had
not looked up at his entrance. Molly sat near her in an easy chair. “Is
she asleep?” Miller asked Molly in a whisper. Molly shook her head.
Miller approached the sofa. He hesitated before the apparently lifeless
figure. After a moment he turned to the others.

“Let’s see what’s in this room first,” he said, “then—” He broke off,
staring at the high bookshelves, piled with musty black-bound volumes.
“These old books!” he cried. ” These dry, valueless reports, as Morgan
called them! This room was where Morgan spent most of his time. We can
only try,” He walked to the shelves and commenced pulling down the
boobs, handing them to Tony and Anderson who placed them on the floor.
There was nothing behind them but smooth, unpapered walls and an
accumulation of dust. Facing failure here, too, he hurried his task. He
picked up several volumes at once and carelessly passed them to the
others. His carelessness grew with his disappointment. A book fell to
the floor from a pile he was handing to Anderson. He heard something
click on the boards. He glanced down. The light of the lamp was caught
there and flashed up into his eyes. Miller stooped quickly. Anderson and
Tony were already on their knees before the open book. Molly leaned
forward with an exclamation. The book was very thick. A hole had been
scooped in its pages in such a manner that it would leave no trace when
the book was closed. Curled in this nest lay a string of perfectly
matched diamonds. Anderson picked it up. As it uncurled, its myriad
facets caught the light and sparkled. It seemed almost conscious of this
superb exposition of its value. “It’s worth thousands,” Anderson gasped.
“I wouldn’t dare say how much.” But Miller was not gazing with the
others at the necklace. His eyes were drawn by the girl who had started
uneasily and had buried her head deeper in her arms. He turned slowly
back to the others. “It’s worth your peace of mind,” he said. “It’s the
whole answer.”

Chapter XXI THE MENACE OF THE SLAVE QUARTERS Molly came forward and
knelt with them over the volumes from which an academic odour of stale
leather arose. “Yes,” Miller said, “we must run through every one of
these books.” For long periods they worked without reward, but
occasionally a book would disclose a cunningly scooped nest sheltering
some costly setting of rich stones. When the last one had been examined
they arranged their discoveries on the table. Morgan, doubtless, had
often set them so to gloat over them late at night when he had fancied
himself secure, while the Andersons, perhaps, were battling against the
manifestations of the coquina house. There were thirty pieces in all of
various worth. “I don’t know much about such things,” Anderson said. ”
Molly, what do you think!” “Two hundred thousand at the very least,” she
answered, a little awed by the display. Miller leaned against the
mantel, staring at the glittering row. “You can figure the duty on this
stuff,” he said, “and probably it’s only one side of the scheme. Andy,
Andy, we ought to have seen it all from the beginning.” Molly looked at
him inquiringly. “I don’t know how. Morgan was the last man to suspect
of anything like this.” “Yes, but Andy himself told me enough the night
I got here to have put the whole thing in our hands if we had only
reasoned. I don’t know what there is about a suspicion of the
supernatural that knocks one’s reason into a cocked hat. You go against
it with a certain mathematical contempt as I started down here. That’s
it. You face the supernatural with a chip on your shoulder. Your fight
is

likely to be negative. Your first concern is to prove that a fact is
not supernatural rather than to find out why it seems supernatural. It’s
the doubt of the unexplored that subconsciously affects the soundest of
us. We’ve been told so often of the existence of forces that play across
the barrier of death that we are afraid, almost unknown to our reasoning
selves, of the possibility of conviction. For that matter the climate of
this place, and its lonely, depressing atmosphere are enough to foster
superstition. That required no trickery. That was all in his favour. And
your talk of what you had suffered here, Tony’s overwhelming belief and
fear, and Morgan’s carefully planned allusions—creeping allusions from
the sanest, the most material of types!—All that was enough to make one
doubt, even though he told himself, as I did, that there was no doubt.”
“We tried, Jim,” Anderson answered. ” We turned every stone. His scheme
was too carefully planned, too subtle for us.” “Yes, and as Molly says,
it was not easy to suspect Morgan. He was too convincing a fellow
victim. Then when we did turn from the unknown it was only to the
unseen, to those oystermen that we knew were not far off in the marshes,
and the possibility of some connection between the fisherman and them.”
“But how, Jim,” Molly asked, “could you have foreseen anything like
this?” “Andy told me the history of Noyer and his island,” he answered.
“Since the days of the buccaneers, when they dared bring their ships in
here to careen them, it has offered a refuge for lawlessness. He also
spoke of that fisherman’s tub, moving silently through the water at
night. That meant a new, expensive engine in a worthless boat; and no
one was allowed on that boat. Noyer could smuggle slaves in here
unmolested after the law had made it a deadly crime, because, as Andy
explained, the island was completely isolated. He was king of it and of
this inlet and of this lonely coast. Is the island any less isolated now
than it was then? Isn’t the dweller in this plantation house as much of
a king now as Noyer was before the war—provided, of course, that the
coquina house doesn’t shelter strangers? Morgan had heard the history of
the place, and, since he was out for that sort of thing, it suggested
the ideal opportunity—everything. There is only a third rate revenue
officer in Martinsburg, and this coast has seen no smuggling since
before the war. The island has been uninhabited since then. Now a
respectable northern family makes la winter home of it. There wasn’t the
slightest ground for suspicion. It was ideal except for you and Molly.
Your

renting of the coquina house was the fly in the ointment. And you must
confess it was hard on Morgan when both places had stood empty for fifty
years. You can imagine his fury. He had to get you out of that house and
off the island.” “Yes,” Anderson agreed, “from his point of view we had
to go. He had to have a clear field. But, Jim, you heard yourself there
in the coquina house!” “Yes, but inevitably that was the lever he’d
use—the supernatural for which the island was notorious, with its rotten
loneliness to back it, and the decayed, unhealthy atmosphere of the
coquina house. You see he had time after he heard you were coining to
arrange the trickery of your house to his fancy. He did it cleverly.
Since you discovered nothing, we’ll have to grant him that.” He glanced
at the girl. “Perhaps we can be guided to the tools. But I think
probably in that thicket back of the kitchen—” He stepped to the table
and fingered the jewellery. “He had to take chances. He was ready to go
any length. There’s more profit in this stuff, you know, than there ever
was in flesh and blood. And I wouldn’t be surprised if there was larger
merchandise—furs, for instance. He was the man to do it on a huge scale,
to squeeze the last drop from his opportunity.” “Then where—” Anderson
began. “Certainly not in the house. It has no cellar, and he had to keep
it free for your friendly visits. I’m afraid we’ll never see that
evidence. It was probably stored in the slave quarters, in the ones he
had repaired. The fire—” He broke off, looking at Tony. Understanding
flashed from the native’s eyes. He wanted to speak. “What is it,Tony?”
The native’s lips parted. He pointed towards the ruined slave quarters.
“It was kept there,” he said.

“How can you be sure of that?” Miller asked. “I saw it. I didn’t know
then.” “Tony! You idiot! And you never spoke! When?” “Th—the night I was
caught in the woods. I don’t know how that happened, but —” Miller
glanced significantly at Anderson. “He was caught, as he calls it, after
he had seen enough to give the whole game away. But why didn’t he know?
Why did he see no one? Tony, why didn’t you tell me you had discovered
the loot?” “I only saw big packing cases. I guessed it was furniture
they hadn’t unpacked. I didn’t think any more about it ‘til now.” “Tell
us how it happened. Talk now. Make yourself talk.” The native swayed
from foot to foot, embarrassed, unaccustomed and unhappy in the centre
of the stage. “I was waiting for you at the end of the avenue. It was
light then. I wasn’t afraid. I reckoned I’d stand outside and peek
through the window—they tell such stories about the quarters, you know.
And it was daylight. I sorter dared myself. I went over. The window was
broken. An old rag hung over it. I pushed it away. There were these
packing cases. There was writing on them. I was going to read that, but
somebody was coming out of the kitchen and down the avenue.” He stopped
and wet his lips. “Go on,” Miller urged. “That’s all. That’s all I saw.”
“All you saw! But how did you get there in the woods, practically
unconscious, unable to move!” “I told you,” he answered. “A little after
that it got dark and I was frightened. I

started down the path to the boat. I don’t know.” “But what happened
before that—after you had looked in the window? Who was it disturbed you
by coming out of the kitchen?” “The woman—the cook.” “Did she speak to
you?” “Yes.” “Well—what!” “She told me Mr. Morgan had said I was to have
a jolt of whiskey.” Miller grasped Anderson’s arm. “That’s it! Of course
he had been watched. And you drank it! Did you drink it all?” “Oh, I
ain’t thought much of that. Maybe half. I’m not much of a whiskey
drinker.” “Half of it, you see! It worked slowly. He wasn’t drugged
blind. Probably he lost himself for only a few minutes. They caught him
in the woods and bound him in case he should come out of it before the
snake had finished him. He began to come out. That wouldn’t have made
any difference, but they heard the girl and me talking by the ruins.
They didn’t know how much she was telling me. It was probably Morgan’s
man and the fisherman. They may have been unarmed. Perhaps they thought
I might charge down the path prepared for them. They didn’t dare risk
it. It was easier to throw Morgan down and let their share in the
smuggling come out than to face a murder charge. So they flung his cords
off. It was the looped snake he heard rattling. That’s why Morgan rushed
out to the boat the next morning—to find out what I knew. He saw he was
safe.” He smiled mirthlessly. “By and by, Tony, you’ll be ashamed to
look a ghost in the face. You ought to be ready now to go to Sandport.
Are you?”

The man nodded sheepishly. “That’s right,” Anderson said. “This was
evidently to be a big haul. The authorities ought to be warned. They
might catch the man and possibly those alleged brothers in the river or
the marshes.” “Take Morgan’s’ launch,” Miller directed, “and swing
around to the beach where we left the dingy. The fire’s gone to the
right. You ought to find the path open to the river end of the island.
Take the boat you hired this afternoon and rouse Sandport. Tell them to
send a fast launch to Martinsburg with the news, and to do what they can
themselves.” When Tony had gone, still shame-faced but reluctant in
spite of it, Miller walked over to the girl. He touched her shoulder
hesitatingly. “I am sorry,” he said. “But you see what we know already.”
She turned. Her eyes were red from weeping. Her lips drooped. “You were
there that night,” he said softly. “You warned me not to go through the
path, therefore you knew what they were doing with Tony.” She did not
answer. He spread his arms helplessly. “I don’t want to believe these
things.” She spoke. Her voice was scarcely more than a whisper. “I
wasn’t waiting—to warn you at first.” He sat on the edge of the sofa.
“Then you didn’t know it was to be done.” “No. I knew other things, but
I didn’t know that. While I waited I saw him stumble down the path. I
saw them follow swiftly with the snake in a loop. It came to me all at
once how the other man had died,” “You must have known those snakes were
kept there.” “They told me the fisherman caught them to sell their skins
in Martinsburg. They

are valuable. I believed that. I wanted to save the man, but you were
the only one to whom I could turn, and that meant probably killing
him—my uncle. But when you came I only thought of saving you. I knew if
you went down that path and discovered them they would try to kill you,
too.” “Yes,” Miller said, “they would have done that if they could. It
would have been necessary.” “But murder!” Anderson said. “These cunning
preparations for death, always ready, always waiting!” “Essential from
Morgan’s point of view,” Miller said. “He regretted it, but it was that
or get out and let the whole scheme go to blazes. Until he drove you off
the island he had to be prepared. He couldn’t keep your household from
his under the circumstances of your loneliness and propinquity without
arousing suspicion at the start. Therefore, if any of you stumbled on
the evidence that would ruin him and send the lot of them to jail, your
silence had to be assured. He had used one of the island’s curses, its
superstition, to help the climate drive you out. For death, if it was
necessary, he chose the other, its poisonous snakes. If any one was
found dead of snake-bite in such a place, why should he or any man be
suspected? He didn’t miss the value of a single card, but I’ll do him
the credit of saying he hoped he wouldn’t have to play that one. But you
wouldn’t be driven out. Then the other day Jake saw too much, and his
friends, the cook and the man, clinked glasses with him.” “Horrible!”
Molly said; “and if she hadn’t told us, guided us, you, too, Jim—”
“Yes,” he answered softly. “I know.” He turned back to the girl. “But
when you came to the beach the next morning you evaded my questions. You
told me things that were not quite true.” She sat up. The colour came
back to her face. “Yon can’t misunderstand that now—The struggle, the
dreadful uncertainty of the road I ought to follow! I hoped to persuade
you to leave the island, for I knew you would try to find out, and
sooner or later they would kill you, I tried to make myself tell you
everything, but I couldn’t, I couldn’t. He was my uncle—

the only father I have ever known. I was given to him a baby, when my
mother died. And I loved him. We were happy until this trouble in New
York.” She stopped and looked down. “He hinted at some money trouble,”
Miller urged gently. “Yes. He had a good jewellery business. Then the
government fined him heavily for evading customs duties. He paid the
fine, but it drove him into bankruptcy. He swore he would get even with
the government. It became a passion.” “Then you knew his plan when you
came here!” “No, oh, no. Don’t think I’m bad.” Molly seated herself
beside her on the sofa and took her hand. The girl glanced at her
gratefully, wonderingly. “I knew nothing at first. He made excuses for
introducing those two men as his brothers to the Andersons. One had been
his partner. The other was in the same business. He told me things that
weren’t true about the Andersons. That was why I wouldn’t be friendly
even at first, why I held them away. Sooner or later I had to discover
everything. That day came. I suffered alone. I tried to find the right
thing to do. You don’t know the unhappiness of that time. What was I to
dot There was no one to whom I could go. And I had no money. I couldn’t
leave the island, and I couldn’t betray him. One doesn’t find it easy to
betray a father. It was the same thing. So I went to him and begged him
to give it up. I couldn’t move him. In the end he made me promise.” “I
see,” Miller said. “That was why you told me he had stayed because of
you.” “Yes, because I had promised not to betray him. Do you blame me
for that?” “I blame you for nothing,” he said softly, “unless it is that
you tried to hold me away from you too.” “I had to, yet I failed. I
wanted no friends here, and you see I was right. You see how it has
worked out.” “Why were you treated so brutally tonight!” Molly asked.

“Because I knew the boat was coming tonight. It was to be the biggest
stroke. I tried to make him promise there would be no murder. He
wouldn’t promise. He said he would send the man to the coquina house at
midnight. He said he would try to keep you interested there, so you
wouldn’t hear anything outside and be tempted to meddle. But he swore if
you did meddle you would have to pay his price. Then I told him I
couldn’t let it go on. I couldn’t risk it. I took back my promise. I
said I would warn you. I started to run out of the house.” She raised
her torn wrists to her face. “He lost his temper. It was terrible.”
After a moment she continued. “But I got free. Without their knowing it
I went to the edge of the clearing at the coquina house. I made up my
mind to stay there all night, and, if you heard anything, if you ran
out, to keep you from coming this way where the danger was. Then some
one called from the boat and you came. When the blue light burned I knew
it was too late. I knew you would take your life in your hands to find
out what the blue light was.” “We know it was a signal,” Anderson began,
“but—” Miller raised his hand. “Understand,” he said to the girl, “I
appreciate—I know the strain. I hate to put you on the rack, but the
fisherman—I’ve tried. He won’t talk.” “No,” she said. “He wouldn’t
anyway. But he is dumb.” “Dumb!” “Yes. That was why they used him.
Because of that he has been an outcast. He hates normal men. The rest
were my uncle’s own people. He could trust them. Well—my uncle is dead.
Oh, I know! If you wish, I think I have a way of making the fisherman
speak, and, since there is much that I can’t tell you—” “How?” Miller
asked. “It isn’t—I don’t like—I’ve succeeded with him easily before.
When we first

came my uncle asked me to do it. I thought it was fun then, but later I
understood why it was.” She hesitated. She sighed. “It makes no
difference,” she said. “I’ll do what you wish. Where is he?” “In the
cupola. Will you comet” She arose, stood unsteadily for a moment, then
walked across the room. Miller took the lamp. He helped her up the
stairs. Anderson and Molly followed. Miller placed the lamp on the
floor. The fisherman’s eyes blinked at first, but as they grew
accustomed to the light his countenance resumed its statuesque
expression. The girl faced him. She looked in his eyes. She spoke to him
quietly, soothingly. Her voice went on with a droning quality. Suddenly
Miller understood. He understood, too, the barrier she had tried to
raise between them when he had startled her that first morning on the
beach. He could define now the sense of unreasoning contest that had
swept him when she had suggested his inability to hold her, to find her
lips. It was her trick, natural or acquired, that she had used to save
herself the torture of seeming friendship with the Andersons, that she
had flung with all her will to avoid an acquaintanceship and its
possible complications with him, the newcomer. But his own will had been
too strong. It had always accepted the challenge. “Where did you learn
that?” he whispered. She motioned him to be quiet. After a few moments
she began to question. The right arm of the fisherman slowly rose at her
command while the fingers flashed the short-hand of the dumb. In a
dreamy voice, as though she were almost hypnotic herself, she translated
these signals. They told how the goods had been shipped by Morgan’s
accomplice in Europe to one of the Bahama Islands; how the brothers had
gone there in their small schooner with a Jamaican crew, received the
goods, stowed them away in a miscellaneous cargo, and cleared for
Martinsburg; how it had always been arranged for the schooner to reach
the inlet bar in the middle of the night, when the fisherman would slip
out in his silent tug and take off the boxes;

how the blue signal light was burned as a necessity to give the
schooner her course for the mouth of the river and to guide the
fisherman to the entrance of the risky channel across the inlet bar.
Tonight, she translated, the storm had alarmed the fisherman. He had not
dared wait for the light. He had taken his chances and come on in. One
of the brothers had come with him. He supposed he had taken alarm and
had escaped with the boat. As for himself, the blue light had shown him
Miller on the shore, hesitating before the entrance to the dangerous
forest. He had followed him, and, when Miller was about to enter the
forbidden quarters, had struck him on the temple from behind. Locking
him in the building with the snakes, he had delayed for a time the
necessary execution while he had tried unsuccessfully to find Morgan.
She turned to them wearily. “There is nothing else, is there?” Miller
shook his head. He walked to the rear window of the cupola. The flames
had done their work quickly. Only a red glow hung sombrely over a
blackened desert. It failed to reach the clouds where the skirmishers of
the dawn with quiet confidence fought it back. “There’s nothing else,”
he said. “Bring him out of it.” He went down the ladder, beckoning to
Molly and Anderson. When they were in the lower hall he took their
hands. “Would you mind?” he asked. “Will you take her home with you,
shelter her until she can forget this nightmare through which she’s
lived in pleasant dreams! You’re my best friends—until she can tell
whether—for me—it’s real!” “Jim!” Molly cried. “You know!” Anderson
laughed softly. “To think, after all, it was on Captain’s Island!” They
heard her descending the ladder. Molly went to meet her at the foot of
the stairs. Miller led Anderson to the verandah.

Chapter XXII THE DAWN They sat on the steps, watching the sky lighten
for the birth of day, fresh, smiling, full of the health of youth. They
roused themselves only when they heard the chugging of the gasolene
launch. Then they walked to the pier and met the deputy sheriff and the
rough native posse which Tony had brought from Sandport. They answered
the necessary questions. They told all they knew. They gave the sheriff
the address of the hotel to which they would go in Martinsburg. The
sheriff left two of his party to take the fisherman and the woman to
Sandport. He set out with the rest in the gasolene launch to explore the
marsh channels to the north of the island. “We’ve done all we can,”
Miller said. “Tony, get to the dingy and row out to the Dart Coax her
engine and bring her around here. Andy, if she holds together, she’ll
have us in Martinsbnrg this afternoon. Bright lights, and the racket of
life, and a real life ahead, if—” He turned towards the house. Anderson
put his arm around him. “I don’t think there are any ‘ifs,’ Jim.” Miller
laughed a little. “It’s out of the way, Andy; it’s hard to believe. She
wouldn’t yield that symbol of friendship and affection. I don’t know her
first name.” “You might find it convenient,” Anderson said gravely. “I
would ask her.” “Yes,” Miller agreed. He entered the plantation house,
walked across the hall, and opened the library door. The girl sat in an
easy chair turned towards the rear window. She gazed thoughtfully,
sorrowfully over the black waste of the forest.

Molly had been sitting near her, but at Miller’s entrance she arose and
hurried past him. Miller heard her join Anderson on the porch. He closed
the door softly. He walked towards the girl. She looked up, a little
frightened, uncertain. He stood before her. He was ill-at-ease. “You
have never told me your first name,” he said. “I understand why, but now
—couldn’t you?” Her eyes were wide. The lines that had come into her
face overnight softened. Her lips parted. “You can ask that now! You
care to know, after everything that has happened?” “Yes, I care very
much—all the more because of what has happened.” Her eyes were moist.
She stammered a little. “You’re not just being kind! Oh, you wouldn’t do
that!” “Only very selfishly,” he answered. “Then—” she said. She reached
up and drew his head close to her lips. Her lips moved. He smiled and
turned towards her lips. THE END
